# Topic Modeling Tutorial jsLDA

- Some questions for the group after readings
- Discussion

## Topic Modeling

When were talking about topic modleing, we're never realy talkign about what topic is meant by the word "topic" in the English language. We're talking about a statistical model that is used to uncover the abstract topics that occur in a collection of documents.

Topics in topic modeling is a statistical concept. A topic is a probability distribution over words. A document is a probability distribution over topics.

Top or keywords

Robot, AI, machine learning, automation, data, ethics, human, society, future, work, jobs, etc.

There is a long tail of words, and the model is trying to figure out what are the most important words that are used to describe the topics.

All words are being described by the topic model -- some words will have 0.0001% of the topic, they dont really belong to the topic, but they are there.

## Topic Modelin & Literature

- LDA
- Generative model
- A document might have a sea/ocean topic
- A document might have a topic about magic
- The rest of the words belong to some other topic

## So what?

- Why would we bother with topic modeling.
- LDA was created in around, even though it is relatively old, Creted in 2001, it is still used today (as opposed to other models that are not used anymore).
  
- Why is this the case? Grounded in the text.
- You can get the words for a specific topic. But then you can also look at what documents are best represented by a specific topic. 
- You  will always have to get back to the text. You can flag some texts using topic modeling.
- Another way of thinking about topic models: they can inform us about the structure of the text. Take the example of Law And Order television show: in the beginning, you have the crime, then the investigation, then the trial, then the verdict. This is the structure of the show. You can think of topic modeling as a way to uncover the structure of the text. A good portion should align with what you already know about the text. The model should in part align with what you know -- hthere is a delicat balance here with what you already know, and confirming your ideas (careful for confirmation biases!) and finding someting new.

Had to establish something specific if you want. And I'd often argue, if you're trying to identify something explicitly already known, topic comments not usually the route to go because it's unsupervised. It's going to tell you it's going to break your collection to some form. If you have a specific model study, you want to do something else, often the same classification or another student measurement tool. It can be useful at times to start flogging and give you extensions of how text could be valuable for that next step, but it's often you need to find the right tool for the right thing, and this can help you get a lot of starting points, but it's often right? Maybe not as meaningful. You've been thinking about how some of the tax I've talked about when you should use topic health, when it maybe doesn't help your arguments. All right, so it's true something a bit more fun, right? So, and like, again, really, all right, I've talked about talking all the way and all these highway and all these sort of technoships. But how do we do it in practice? So. one way I've been using it is to think about how we can study themes from a garlic to what's happening in science fiction. And I do need science fiction models. So a collection that a small one-body versions of a collection I've been working on involves a collection of digitized texts predominantly in copier. And I think some of these aren't more basically almost all are So for 1200 models written by on the order of two hundred and forty-five authors. These are all small pivotals, but one thing that's happening here, I have to find authorship as collaborations are just another unique author. So if there's author a and author B and they collaborate together as a and B, then there are those are free office, right? And that's a It mostly just for the purposes of counts. But again, right, these are choices that would be made. And this is how the questions that it works. As you can see, there's a lot of stuff from the 60s 70s and 80s and it trails off in the 2000s. That's because digitization is. less prevalent for newer things. Similarly. trails off over here because I also wasn't looking for old things, but also if we think about the genre and realizing developing until the same like in the 30s later. Soaking hasn't happened, but smoking has already been kind of old on the standard view of thinking about science fiction. OK, there's these time periods, but it's also worth knowing how this weighs out because radically look at. Occur instance overtime, or just raw frequencies. If we see a lot of things happening in 1970s but it follows this direct pattern, it might just be telling us it's actually somewhere across our entire collection, but that's the shape of our collection. And if you don't know, that's your shape. You might go look at this is a phenomenon like a peaked in 19 sepus, but it didn't. 

## What is science fiction?
All right. So the part of these steps of, like, how you end up having to shape your question. But that'd be really difficult to find all the borders for boundaries and edges, right? You have, these are several people who write in the space at different times and many different comments about how boys can define sexual. It's not even the only way each of them is to find a gas mileage stress that is about scientific advancement. You can always consider yourself a science fiction writer, but have sort of established at one point that the seizure tool is about a metaphor, right? You ride science fiction, you're writing about now or the past. often writing just to putsake of writing about the future. That's granted. There may be science fiction that you would count that are more just about the future, but that's that's a take on what elements of Canar and others are like, right, maybe taking the relationship German point of life. It is whatever we say it is. right. It's a moving target. It's a community of people. It's a community of writers. It's also a business. There are a lot of sort of elements defeating into what this category means to who is that right? So, like, maybe that's something a hard thing to ask and even write labels are difficult but we can probably do the simple thing. 

## HWat is topic modeling about?

I'll give you a little pieces that this was a 250 topic model that's on the small side, but this is it's useful for the purposes of this case. It's more than enough to get interesting semantics Risk ideas will be something that you think would be The topic. All right, so let's just try to look for. slash. All right. Care of Pacific Conference. Another one. It has some problems. We'll talk about it later, maybe not discuss it. So we're talking about and see if there's one there with aliens. Yeah, right. But of course, he didn't. Sorry about should appear. I mean, a human healing speeds, right? Aliens, women and so on. This is looking like a pretty good starting point. It's probably not aliens. They look further. the next 10 words is right. You can always keep going in this probability distribution for forever generally for the purposes of like quick Lansing models show usually by default. 20. Right. You're trying to write things out. Often you've done producing the 10. Then you see things more about like intelligence. But those submissions creatures and sort of there might be a lot interestingly bait in this topic I need a difference different. another one Technology all right that word might not be taught, but we will see. So I am not checked. Let's see. what's happening? This is the problem. So it's only doing the top 10 It might not be. It's not that it's not inherent. It's just again technology might be able to work frequency where. And so it could be. I bet there's one in the broader part, but I'm not going to. I have a feeling I'm not going to find it quickly. Let's see if we just do like electric. Come on. I know one of these This is actually being You might gather, but these are maybe about slightly two different things. One is a bunch of machines and brains and computer and Gita, and another one seems to be a different element. And right? It's hard to see it immediately throughout the text itself, but we might be able to learn the later topic a little bit more, right? Like once we've seen a lot about machines and programming and then another has to go a little bit of different use cases with more files. Some of it like big isn't intuitive right away and that's where you need to do the 2nd step of looking at what these things contain. They do this one very quickly because I want us. I want there to be time for you to work with the text themselves. All I'm doing is typing I. D. S of the topics and. this is notably a program that I'm writing locally on a machine. This just happens to be an interface to look at it. I'm sorry. I don't see a little code. It's not really worth it. but right. So this will show for this topic. We were the top authors and the top books. Unfortunately, I'm not actually familiar with these books. So this is where it becomes a little bit harder of interfacing notably one thing for how am I been able to work with these in copyright checks. How are you being able to be given a smaller quote sample of tax that are science fiction because they're in a non-conceptive forms, so they're not immediately legible but this is bag of words so if you can give me the bag of words. That's all. I need to run a topic model. I don't need to have worker and so that's sort of the fundamental piece happening. in this case they're like bats and words of those text operating them at the. page level. So that's why there's enough context that's useful and these are registrations folks I'm pretty sure so like this if I do more about prices almost can turn into more about computers systems in space or like write command center versus a local computer or machines machine learning the right clickers often they sort of flavors but this would be one where you won't look at closer than I'm gonna do for this moment.

## Where's the science in science fiction

I've been done in two decades, plus things before 1950 because it's just a pretty sparse section. So they just got bumped together. But we see that there's this topic that I described to be about science. This is generally more of the sort of research science knowledge projects in a lab style work. And that 1 seems to for, again, maybe there's a real phenomena I invalidate and some data how my collections construction constructed heavily won't pass, whether or not since our real phenomena here. not that this term seems to be as more and the pre 1950s my biggest section for that might be about how science is being described later in time. Things that are would be science for someone and say the 1900 where it like in the twenty like. Early. Oh gosh, 19 th century. What have you got? Like these sort of stages are. technological differences there's a subcategory. There is a separate topic for a specific fields But if you don't think about biology as a separate field or chemistry as a separate field that might have its own topic, it might be just a conservative broader terms. It'd be captured by this broader topic. Other things that are honestly pretty flat throughout. We have a topic that seems to be some notion about the university. What's in academia, science and research I mentioned. But right we're professors University College's students, right? So it's more of that sort of sphere space and. Pokemon where it's really science is only part of the word. It's like we like it's likely can we could concur this really science fiction. And so it's about the writing process. And so this is explicitly in many and why is an ebay because 1 there are copyright pages where usually give a little blurred about what things are from but also right we have prophecies we have like these little introductions or descriptions of introducing attacks and about the writing process. And so that's where this is pulling from. and again how do I validate any of the tasks I know where it's coming from I'm not just taking the step face value that these are the topics and that's what it is right.


## Ships
I have this one I didn't actually draw the slides but we can quickly look at this one again. Yeah, these are all rip off. We keep afraid. Yeah. So you have Ships on water. I got one right there. It's got boats and sailing and winds, rivers. It's very much the probably on Earth. Not always. That's the fun part of looking good. Funny words that are not just on her, but they might have other things that like break this ones more about this is another spaceship one. It seems to be primarily about spaceships. It might include some other things that we were talking about planets and cruise and systems and captains leaving at vessels and stars. So this is very much a spaceship topic. Next one Also this. But if you look at these words, what do you think when you see ship being toward father energy, power screen, laser Yeah, appleships are like, this is a shipping combat. So right, it's more like this is likely grasping up the This is like a like the grant. This is a battle of space which you need ships for probably, but not necessarily just about great spaceships. And the next 1 seems interesting piece of like, we have ships, but it's not really talking about anything specifically about ships themselves. It's more has to do with the command structures. Sarah, this could be ships. It could also be planes, right? Because planes operate. They have captains. They have crews, right? This is captured a bit more of these broader things you get, right? Engineers, even officers. It's more of a sort of even organization Again, right. The reflects back to ships. And so you have all these things that are doing different stuff. Like, why about cargo? So that's more about, like, trade, right? So you can have quite a range of things time to a single word. And that's something this interesting part, right? We didn't do any. We didn't tell them all anything about how ship is used. But it's grabbing from the context that they're in. It's used in a variety of ways. And again, right, providing enough room for enough topics for to separate these concepts out. It does. And right. So that's that sort of interesting piece, right? I don't know. This one seems to be. more about, like, doing things on it that holes rabbi, right. So there's, are there all these sort of nuanced concepts? That's like one. It's frustrating from the summons because. like, what's the difference between this topic and some of the other space topics? We just want to talk about spaceships. Well, you'll have to actually take a text because this is a tough because we'll not tell you without. looking for examine text. You have to go do a lot of additional analysis, right? A look on your own. Like, that's part of the point. The topic I want to see you from learning, like from the sandy of the test. It may be healthy to a gap right target. What you looked at first. I can't read. I can't read 1200 checks. Probably a year. I'm gonna guess. But at least based on my free time, my free hand reading the blood science fiction levels that don't have read that many. I probably can't remember them all well enough to think about some of these contacts. All right, that's kind of part of this help. It's like, what do you look at? Maybe it's not always perfect because again, it might miss things. But like, even as a team of readers might miss things, I don't know which books to look at based on some titles and authors. I might not even know that some folks ended messaging **** and passing new ways because they. weren't insane. A list that was like a published list. I knew about that suggested these books. So we're having the right. But this is another sort of potential source and suggestion for that.

## The unseen

They may be in a lot of books, but some books have a lot of spaceships in them. And you're going to know, right? Because it's going to have so many more tokens feed invested in that topic. In this case, there were a lot of top books that mentioned it, but at much smaller, smaller proportions. And so here at Newman, exactly see the numbers. But like, one thing that's interesting is we have this new topic, the blue line. I'm sorry, it's not the world. It's not safe. It's not great for color blindness or like color issues, but it's the line that basically is flat. That's the way it's saying. It starts higher up on the left side. And so that one's tell me that's effectively about news, right? That's something probably gas has been a lot in the background with a lot of topics. Everything tv shows how often news and media might be mentioned. But it's never really the the main subject or really maybe the font point in the book. Although there was exactly one book that have a lot of it, and it was because the main character was a news writer. It was her newspaper. And that ended, like said, he that was the only one. And everything else was a really live, small amount But it's consistently used your time. But that might be interesting to look at if you're driving, right? Some of this is being reflection of everyday life, even in these more genre sort of more fantastic settings that often are these questions like, how do we still portray the board? The boring or the right, the mundane and one that was interesting. And maybe is of interest to people who can think about how people write, that there was a topic that seemed to be a lot about senses, specific, but really often smells and taste. and taste that it's much more prominent in the more recent works great. And so this is the frequency for each section. But like, it is much more prominent. And so then there's something about, well, is it about how writing change and everything can describe, or even appointment science fiction, maybe even if there's an influence for why it would thinking about this different sense more, more about, say, this taste, sort of smell component and loss it up? You like where I've seen things with these other aspects. Sorry. Like, it's this interesting point of something that you might. that you might not know. Like, I sure wasn't picking it out. So that would be a topic of interest. But it was fun, especially if I just had a display mode. I want us to This is

## jsLDA

I will say interface because we haven't actually done anything that has not been trained. But let's think about all the sort of pieces here for how we would engage with this in the future. So on the left side, these are going to be the topics we define it at the start. The default is 25 topics. You can train up to things up to 100 but keep it at 25. It's starting with a small corpus. It is either purpose what years it goes to for the state of the Union addresses up to some point, probably. I guess maybe in early 2000s each And then there's put up until they get new paragraphs or so. And so these things. right here in this screen are showing you a document. And so this is or that like the starting representation of a document. Maybe it's finished. If there isn't a todd. Otherwise it's just shooting the start. This is from the 1939 State of Union address. And this is just a new part six and it's on your presented which is how much of this document is associated with the topic we have selected which is currently 0. Note we have not run anything. So as you're seeing most of these numbers are looking that big like 5% which is about right. the latest model started is it just randomly assigns a topic number to everywhere and then it will do a process iteratively like the non negative matrix factorization to learn better assignments and the sort of intuitive way to think about what the models actually doing is it's that words in a document should have similar topic come from similar topics because there's a small set of topics you try to clear it and that words of the same type so grown that that should occur in similar topics as well and right like there might be multiple topics that is associated with but it's a it should get smaller and more coherent for and it's going to iterate between where he has two things and get better results that's effectively what this implement this version of LDS and I hope that kind of gives some sense but really the notion is that there's some right we have some topic just like a document has some topic distribution and we're trying to learn those So the words in a document should come from a smaller set. likely set of topics at some point each word has some distribution like right it comes from certain topics and so those are correspondent so sort of this is found we've been back and forth that what it's doing but this is a trank so What do you think all these top words are suggesting? This is randomly given random numbers to every word. So I talk a word that seems to be there for like all of them Yeah. What do you think that's telling you about What's his problem? What do you mean by confident? Like it shows up in that? Yeah, it's extremely free good. It's probably one of the most frequent words that's in this collection. We can quickly check that by there's a vocabulary buffy. And, yeah, so it's frequent work. That's why it's still there. I'm not covered with the snare brace. It's something you might want to engage with. You can stop words, right? So you can hit the stop button. And now that's been removed from the collection. And the model won't use it to train. Luckily, I can go over And it's already, by default, actually stopping works. That's why we didn't see that. That's basically always the most prominent word in a collection, because generally you just don't bother with words like single flutters. So it's like between, I think always 15 percent in English purpose. So it's a lot of tokens, which maybe isn't surprising, but it's a lot. And for a topic novel, it's probably never a word you care about. Preview for next week. There are other situations where you really care strongly about the word dog, because it does tell you a lot, but maybe not so much about. topical information. See the problem we often do a topic. We say it's topical and then we're like a topic, but also just a probability distribution since there really is if this notion of subject, right? So that's often something that's happening. Yeah, it's really doing better. So he's probably just removing the words of two links. But I'm gonna quickly refresh my browsers. So I have unstopped government. And so that's the initial framework. We have to talk words. It's shown probably the first time or so. I'm not gonna kill it right now. It's showing us twenty-five. We can go to some other pages. I'm not gonna talk about this page. Feel free to prove it at your leisure later. And then we have a time series page. So what this effectively means is every document is being sorted In this case, I don't believe it's just fine. It's like yearly hole. It's not doing it. It doesn't know about the big times. It's a label. It's just sort of But we can think about. And right now, all this would be really boring because we haven't done any training that's showing you how say this topic. This is the one part that's been parties. They're all boring right now. But whatever number this topic is, this is the distribution. The proportional distribution of that topic across all of the documents in a collection? probably by each speech. 

## Iterations

Careful how you hit this button! Click it a couple of times, values are changing. Because notice that, right? We're going to keep having change. I will say a rule of thumb for how long I typically grab a lot of the mostly larger models, but in general, you got to like an asphalt iterations, but you can really just start even watching because you're watching a junior interactively, as opposed to just starting a command and feedback later. You can see how much it's changing or not as you add 50 mortar ratios, right? Like there's still some movement, right? We're seeing, like, at least I can do the quick glance of some of the. black pixels moved on the left side, so things are still changing, right? Like, no babies, babies around there. I must have been it again. See us. It's going to start. It already has been more. We can start seeing. That's the fact that's happening, that we're getting right. This topics are looking more meaningful, right? That's a keep hitting us. We've got something Gosh, okay. That's about probably education. So this is and I am now a demonstrated of the thing that is a pain. We got something on economics. Hopefully Monica stops believing in the train. I must have hit it accidentally much. But we can see, right? What you'll see over time is that some words are used a lot, right? Some topics. And I'm saying words are really good topics here are much more prominently mentioned at certain points of time. And that does happen with the state of the event, right? We can think about what time period certain things are going to be stressed more. There's a whole lot more to be said there, which, like, political science and some things like other social science and usually think about what do you put in this speech because it's a state of the Union address and my your addressing technically one group. But at a certain point it became much more like you were actually not really talking to Congress anymore. You're really talking to its broadcast. It's you're talking to the American public but right. It talked about the promises. Maybe there's something prominent if they did some if there's something you know is there a war going on is someone doing a big policy change around education and so maybe some of these things more than others and even the point of like what words maybe get mentioned at least it happens a lot. But education's only mentioned later and we can think about just in terms of the United States of what did public education probably give a comment. It was not addicted. You know it was not even a concept at the very start of the zookeeper not really I wouldn't have it wouldn't have made a good dress right wouldn't be important enough to be at that level. So that's kind of the idea of this I'm going to kill us because I think I did the classic I hit it too many times in the future if you close the window browser it kills the right the program's gone as it will disappear I will say one thing that is nice you can download these files I will say I remember what this look like because it's just a different I use off to a different tool but you can download these different files and so this one should tell you about my brand the topic words. It's just something you might want this is probably getting the document topic distribution and so these are the different ways to access these styles and like that's something you could save even when you post your browser you can still have the stuff these are some ways to save elements of that the. really big thing which will be a big file is If it is the state file I'm picking up, that means it would have the individual assignments for every token. It may not be that file. Maybe talking about a different aspect of sandwich, but that's the concept here. Again, work with them at your leisure, but you don't need to.

## Why top words arent enough

The school professor work at University I'm only going to give you this. This is vocal, and they set of words against Yeah, that makes sense. What do you think it's about? Yeah, yeah. It's about the university. And you're right, it is a pretty good topic. You can check the text. It's. Am I right? At least looks interpretive from looking at it. But of course, you can always check underneath. How about this one Does anyone know what's about? It's fine. If not, it's about Everett Kaffrey's writers and current series, if anybody agree with it, maybe it's a it's an old, they're old book, so it's a maybe not a It's a very specific series. So you're getting great, like, in some ways it's a formative life. It's a book series. Why might it be really unhelpful? Yes, it doesn't tell you anything about how they relate. Like, okay, it's the collection. You know how I could also find that out from the metadata? I don't know what these things can come. So I know we wrote it. I know they're all in the same template. I know they're in the series together. So everything from the catalog they'd already have tells me that information. So this is bad from our perspective, given that this model was just tared a bunch of pages, and that's holding anything more. Hey, it found some a way that they were at least pages relate to each other. They're all in the same set of books that are in the same world. But yeah, it's bad from the view of, like, what I think we would want to have a can talk about, right? But we're asking questions about how these books relate to each other. And it's not a more general thing. It's right. It's specific to this book series. Maybe we care about other specific topics, but Arguably, this one is not great How about this one? Robot robots Andrew Cuba and colleague Susan Calvin Graham. What do you think this thing about? I'm going to keep saying this is all here. The hip here is they all are representing something. There is something the same, but making up a big one. Yeah, this was like, again, I was like, I'm like a series. of course Yeah. Does anyone know what it might be about? I don't know if there's nothing else inside of it Right now, let's talk about that. Sorry, you're wrong. It's not foundation. This is Isaac Asimov's robot series You know what's really bad about it, though This took all the space. I know I've shown you a robot topic before, but in this without additional intervention, there is no general robot's topic. Nothing about mechanics machines robots because they got into by this topic. That's really just about as a gas sponsor bus Is probably the collection. He's written a lot of stuff. That's part of it. But like, this is that issue. And I grant this worry of, like, I this took up space of, like, the learning space. My model only had so many topics, and it crowded out anything general, because there are a lot of other people who talk about robots. So it's not, it's not just as serious, but like, right, he has character. It's called robot. But like, this is something that happens. So think like hyperbot and I think both movies are bad. I don't see any of them. But, like, wrote this in this robot concepts. How about this one? And I think that's probably very smart desert group Roger. I'm sorry, brother does rock. Yes, you're right. But we might think it's just as bad as lost one, right? Like, why would would tell me? Well, if you actually look at the text, all those character names are like the protagonist generally of books that are set in marks and Martian contacts. So it is actually a marts topic. But like, I wouldn't check about that. Like, leave when I saw this is like, this is a bad topic. And then I looked further and was like actually, this is a case where it's actually read it the names would help you if you like us through them. I did not. So classic case of what you know sometimes about words also matters. And I definitely didn't know that And I'll give you a little preview here because it's really things that we're working on. I have created a trick. There are two files. One is called faces maybe and 1 is transferred transformed. There are data transformations which I'll share some weeks later that you're welcome to look at more as much as I will say apologies it's a it's a it's a paper. It's not going to be like I have some slides but like you're getting the output as opposed to like a nice blog like Maria's work about how we can transfer. the data in a way that gets generally better topics it's not perfect. We still have at the end of the half free time because more general words but we doesn't leave space it's generally removing words in this case that are used primarily by a small number of authors and not removing them completely because I was a gas small rights got robots and I want to know that but I don't want his usage of robot to drown up any other concept of all I go is 0 yes robots that means isogazimov as opposed to is robots the concept that many people use in different in different but similar ways and so that's why I mean still it also we don't hurt our initial publicizer we still keep that nervous time yeah I'm just wondering is it like a general I don't know I just noticed that like the ones with like proper names seem to be like worst topics and the ones that like don't have proper nouns and I'm wondering if that's like a general group to go by if like there are too many like names or things like that wouldn't be tighter. So it's complicated one names are really hard to always. catch This is I believe real issue for a heavyweight because he really likes today in his main character is common names like Bill and Cat and I don't want to remove all the cats in my collection because sometimes they're animals but they're the sort of a words. They're so capitalized and like maybe if I'm lucky if I don't have a bad words framework and I might be able to use a tool I can decently talk to identify everyone that's a named entity but that's a little hard but that's a hard task people have tried it will say like it makes it less obvious that bad things are still happening is I think the way to frame it because there's still plenty of words like robot. It's not a big but it tells you a lot about isogathy right so there's there often in some ways like there tend to be bad in some circumstances I don't have the example here and I don't think it's in my data but there are some cases where if it's a common enough terminology in names they might still be a value think like names that evoke Britain to you like London Elizabeth. William, a series of these things that they persist. Sometimes they can still be meaningful. But right? This is that light tissue of. Words are hard, and sometimes you want to play. Sometimes they're really informative, and sometimes they aren't. But yeah, names will often fall out because, especially if they're not common, they're probably not being used by a lot of people who need the same thing. They will follow up. But like, it's not the only thing, because we might say, how many people need is the word sandworm in the works Very few about ties to Frank Herbert student series, but if we talk about spice or sand or dune, those are words used by some people a lot more than others, but they're very right. They still have a lot of thumbnail in things that can be of interest and just this problem that name terms matter because like I sometimes want to know when people are neurobic and Einstein, for instance, because it's probably about what things is about the mortuary and right, the Turing test. But even if this problem like names. it's really hard to make a stop list, right? You have to do a lot more work. And even though there's always that, I think Gray area of, like, they're optimum helpful, but sometimes they're really valuable. And so that's one of those classic nuances. This is 1 that was like a version that avoided even thinking about types of words. Like, there was, like, it did analysis of, like, why it was more than just names. But like, names are huge. They're part of it. I'll give you, like, the one that for why it's such an issue to in general, like, one thing that those models doing, which a lot of. like, I'll say, natural language processing and machine stuff does is it seems the sort of, like, independence of word of word instances. So every time you say a word, it's fully independent. So the fact that I said banana is not impact the chances of these things banana again at the same time, which we would argue as I feel like when people who see and write in language that's not true at all. If I'm finding myself, I've already said some words in their same names, I'm likely to mention them again at the test. That's really true in a book. We have our characters, the characters are very. likely not always gonna be something that I'm thinking are only at the airport scene. But like, often they come back. And so that's sort of occurrences. And that's why names really hurt fiction work because names are very proud to. It's very clear that they interact with each other. But sometimes things are cool too. So you can worry about how characters interact with each other, which may be different than like the certain names co occur a lot and sometimes don't. And right. So this is all that it's hard. There's no perfect answer. But now I want you all to break up in like small groups and say Jewish but lights who are more where you're running each of those files. with JSLDA and compare that I'll give you like this weather morning to give you some versions. This is not going to do anything when we came up. I head down to improve this point, but I want you to think about what each of those trained topics tells us. And maybe this follow up point of, does it actually let's say this is a run on a machine, because it'll be slow. But they could all like, would you want more topics and say, 25 which is the defaults? What is the tax collection you have do? have not somewhere.

## Activity

file names: decade and then the rank in that decade (so when you want to look at time distributions, those ranks are used)
