policies.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Policies"
permalink: /policies/
nav_order: 5
---

# Course Policies and Expectations

## Reading

Almost every week, we will read key texts that touch upon important themes in digital humanities, highlight specific projects, or introduce a technique/methodology. Needless to say, these readings are crucial. They not only prepare you for the content of the lessons (and I will expect you to be familiar with them) but also set the stage for our discussions. All texts will be made available through the online platform [Perusall](https://www.perusall.com/), which enables collaborative reading. You will be able to annotate the texts and comment on each other’s annotations. I will also be able to see your annotations and comments, which will help me to prepare for our discussions.

## Class Meeting Types

Below goes an overview of the different types of class meetings we'll have. It is important to note that discussions -- anchored by the readings -- will be part of every class meeting, regardless of the type.

- **Lecture**{: .label .label-blue}: Traditional instructional sessions focusing on course material.
- **Lab**{: .label .label-red}: Traditional instructional sessions focusing on course material.
- **Trip**{: .label .label-green}: Educational visits to relevant locations or institutions.
- **Present**{: .label .label-yellow}: Student presentations of their projects or research.

## Attendance and Participation

Many sessions in this seminar will be discussion-based, where active participation is essential. Your responsibility includes **arriving on time, completing the readings and exercises, and being prepared for class discussions and activities**.

I understand that unavoidable situations can arise: sometimes life just happens. If you must miss a class, please try to inform me in advance. You’re allowed to miss up to three classes – no questions asked. Additional absences may impact your grade, except in the case of medical or personal emergencies.

## Installation

Some of the tools we will use in this course require installation. I will provide detailed instructions for each tool ahead of our session. Please make sure to follow these instructions carefully and to **install the tools in advance of our session**. If you have any issues, please let me know.

## Conduct Research with Integrity

Plagiarism will not be tolerated. You are responsible for ensuring that your submitted work is original work. If you are unsure about what constitutes plagiarism, please consult the [University of Princeton's Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities page](https://rrr.princeton.edu/2023/students-and-university/24-academic-regulations#comp246).

## AI Assistance

Intellectual honesty is crucial to an academic community and for my fair evaluation of your work. Yet we cannot ignore the fact that generative artificial inteligence -- especially Large Language Models (LLMs), such as CHatGPT -- are putting siginificant pressure on the way education is shaped today. I will ask you to engage with it in a reasonable and responsible manner that aligns with the Honor Code of Princeton University. In concrete and explicit terms, this means that **all work submitted in this course must be your own, completed in line with [Princeton University’s academic regulations](https://rrr.princeton.edu/2022/students-and-university/24-academic-regulations)**.

Simultaneously, I believe that conversing with a Large Language Model like ChatGPT is an important skill (and will be in the future). For certain assignments, I will explicitly instruct you to use ChatGPT as a discussion partner for brainstorming purposes (not for copying answers verbatim). This approach will help you to critically engage with the content and to develop your ability to analyze and synthesize information.

Using LLMs should be seen as an opportunity to enhance your learning and understanding, rather than a shortcut to completing assignments. It is a tool for exploration, providing a way to expand your thinking and challenge your perspectives. As with any educational tool, the key lies in how you use it to complement **your learning**.

## COVID Protocol

If you test positive for COVID, please stay home! Inform me, and we will arrange -- if possible -- a semi-hybrid option.

Commit message:

many updates -- office hours added, first assignments, policies updated with missed sessions, springbreak interruption added in schedule

policies.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Policies"
permalink: /policies/
nav_order: 5
---

# Course Policies and Expectations

## Reading

Almost every week, we will read key texts that touch upon important themes in digital humanities, highlight specific projects, or introduce a technique/methodology. Needless to say, these readings are crucial. They not only prepare you for the content of the lessons (and I will expect you to be familiar with them) but also set the stage for our discussions. All texts will be made available through the online platform [Perusall](https://www.perusall.com/), which enables collaborative reading. You will be able to annotate the texts and comment on each other’s annotations. I will also be able to see your annotations and comments, which will help me to prepare for our discussions.

## Class Meeting Types

Below goes an overview of the different types of class meetings we'll have. It is important to note that **discussions -- anchored by the readings -- will be part of every class meeting**, regardless of the type.

- **Discussion**{: .label .label-blue}: Sessions that combine lecturing with guided discussions, emphasizing critical engagement with the readings.
- **Lab**{: .label .label-red}: Hands-on sessions that apply concepts in a practical setting.
- **Trip**{: .label .label-green}: Educational visits to relevant locations or institutions.
- **Presentation**{: .label .label-yellow}: Opportunities for students to present their projects, followed by class discussions and feedback sessions.

## Attendance and Participation

Many sessions in this seminar will be discussion-based, where active participation is essential. Your responsibility includes **arriving on time, completing the readings and exercises, and being prepared for class discussions and activities**.

I understand that unavoidable situations can arise: sometimes life just happens. **If you must miss a class, please try to inform me in advance.** You’re allowed to miss up to three classes –- no questions asked. Additional absences may impact your grade, except in the case of medical or personal emergencies, religious holidays, or attending/traveling to/from varsity competitions.

## Equipment

Since many of our sessions involve hands-on work with digital tools, but also because assignments will require you to work with digital tools, **you will need a laptop** for this course (tablets, unfortunately, won't suffice). If you do not have one, please let me know as soon as possible. I will do my best to help you find a solution!

## Installation

Some of the tools we will use in this course require installation. I will provide detailed instructions for each tool ahead of our session. Please make sure to follow these instructions carefully and to **install the tools in advance of our session**. If you have any issues, please let me know.

## Conduct Research with Integrity

Plagiarism will not be tolerated. You are responsible for ensuring that your submitted work is original work. If you are unsure about what constitutes plagiarism, please consult the [University of Princeton's Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities page](https://rrr.princeton.edu/2023/students-and-university/24-academic-regulations#comp246).

## AI Assistance

Intellectual honesty is crucial to an academic community and for my fair evaluation of your work. Yet we cannot ignore the fact that generative artificial inteligence -- especially Large Language Models (LLMs), such as CHatGPT -- are putting siginificant pressure on the way education is shaped today. I will ask you to engage with it in a reasonable and responsible manner that aligns with the Honor Code of Princeton University. In concrete and explicit terms, this means that **all work submitted in this course must be your own, completed in line with [Princeton University’s academic regulations](https://rrr.princeton.edu/2022/students-and-university/24-academic-regulations)**.

Simultaneously, I believe that conversing with a Large Language Model like ChatGPT is an important skill (and will be in the future). For certain assignments, I will explicitly instruct you to use ChatGPT as a discussion partner for brainstorming purposes (not for copying answers verbatim). This approach will help you to critically engage with the content and to develop your ability to analyze and synthesize information.

Using LLMs should be seen as an opportunity to enhance your learning and understanding, rather than a shortcut to completing assignments. It is a tool for exploration, providing a way to expand your thinking and challenge your perspectives. As with any educational tool, the key lies in how you use it to complement **your learning**.

## COVID Protocol

If you test positive for COVID, please stay home! Inform me, and we will arrange -- if possible -- a semi-hybrid option.
