tools.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Tools
permalink: /resources/tools
parent: Resources
---

## Tools

This page provides a curated list of tools that can be used for Digital Humanities projects. Whether you're interested in text analysis, data visualization, mapping, or any other area, the following resources can be incredibly useful.

Remember to explore each tool and dataset to see how they can best fit into your project or research!

### Text Analysis
- **[Voyant Tools](https://voyant-tools.org/)**: Web-based text analysis environment.
- **[Google Books Ngram Viewer](https://books.google.com/ngrams)**: Graph and compare word usage over time.
- **[TAPoR](http://tapor.ca/home)**: Discover research tools for studying texts.
- **[AntConc](https://www.laurenceanthony.net/software/antconc/)**: A text analysis toolkit, especially for concordancing 
- **[Stylo](https://sites.google.com/site/computationalstylistics/)**: Tool for stylometric analysis, often used in authorship attribution.
- **[MALLET](http://mallet.cs.umass.edu/)**: A Java-based package for statistical natural language processing, document classification, clustering, topic modeling, information extraction, and other machine learning applications to text (see also **[this browser-based topic model](https://mimno.infosci.cornell.edu/jsLDA/jslda.html), great for experimenting).
- **[Natural Language Toolkit](https://www.nltk.org/)**: A Python library for natural language processing.
- **[spaCy](https://spacy.io/)**: Another - slightly more advanced - Python library for natural language processing.
- **[Stanford CoreNLP](https://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/)**: Another library for natural language processing.
- **[TextBlob](https://textblob.readthedocs.io/en/dev/)**: Yet another Python library for natural language processing.
- **[Gensim](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/)**: A Python library for topic modeling, document indexing, and similarity retrieval with large corpora.
- **[Word2Vec](https://code.google.com/archive/p/word2vec/)**: A tool for computing continuous distributed representations of words.
- **[WordNet](https://wordnet.princeton.edu/)**: A lexical database for the English language.

### Content Management Systems
- **[Omeka](https://omeka.org/)**: A free, flexible, and open source web-publishing platform for the display of library, museum, archives, and scholarly collections and exhibitions.
- **[WordPress](https://wordpress.com/)**: A free and open-source content management system.
- **[Drupal](https://www.drupal.org/)**: Another free and open-source content management system.
- **[Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)**: A simple, blog-aware, static site generator.
- **[Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)**: A fast and modern static site generator.

### Text Digitization
- **[Transkribus](https://readcoop.eu/)**: A platform for the automated recognition, transcription, and searching of historical documents.
- **[daiR](https://dair.info/)**: R package for Google Document AI, a powerful server-based OCR processor with support for over 60 languages.
- **[Kraken](https://kraken.re/main/index.html)**: Open source software that specializes in non-Latin alphabets, including bidirectional, right-to-left, and top-to-bottom scripts. Kraken is Python-based and runs on the command line.
- **[CERberus](https://github.com/WHaverals/CERberus)**: Great tool for string comparison and error detection in HTR'd or OCR'd text. The tool provides an implementation of Character Error Rate calculation between a reference string and a hypothesis string, with various customization options.


### Data Visualization
- **[Tableau Public](https://public.tableau.com/en-us/s/)**: Create interactive data visualizations.
- **[Gephi](https://gephi.org/)**: Open-source software for all kinds of graphs and networks.
- **[RAWGraphs](https://rawgraphs.io/)**: Open-source data visualization framework, turning spreadsheets and into beautiful graphics.
- **[Datawrapper](https://www.datawrapper.de/)**: Create charts, maps, and tables.
- **[Palladio](http://hdlab.stanford.edu/palladio/)**: A web-based platform for the visualization of complex, multi-dimensional data.
- **[NetworkX](https://networkx.github.io/)**: A Python library for the creation, manipulation, and study of the structure, dynamics, and functions of complex networks.
- **[Network Navigator](https://networknavigator.jrladd.com/)**: A web-based tool designed to give you a first glimpse of your network data, with both metrics and visualizations.
- **[Cytoscape](https://cytoscape.org/)**: An open source software platform for visualizing complex networks and integrating these with any type of attribute data.
- **[WTFcsv](https://wtfcsv.com/)**: Tells you WTF is going on with your .csv file.
- **[Kumu](https://kumu.io/)**: A powerful data visualization platform that helps you organize complex information into interactive relationship maps.
- **[ClioVis](https://cliovis.com/)**: Interactive timeline, mind-mapping and presentation tool.

### Mapping and Spatial Analysis
- **[QGIS](https://qgis.org/en/site/)**: A free and open-source geographic information system.
- **[Leaflet](https://leafletjs.com/)**: JavaScript library for interactive maps.
- **[StoryMap JS](https://storymap.knightlab.com/)**: Create stories with maps.
- **[ArcGIS](https://www.arcgis.com/index.html)**: Create interactive maps and apps.
- **[GeoPandas](https://geopandas.org/)**: A Python library for working with geospatial data.
- **[GeoJSON.io](https://geojson.io/)**: A simple tool for creating, viewing, and sharing maps.
- **[Mapbox](https://www.mapbox.com/)**: Create custom maps.
- **[OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/)**: A free, editable map of the world.
- **[Recogito](https://recogito.pelagios.org/)**: A tool for the collaborative annotation of texts and images.
- **[GeoJSON.io](http://geojson.io/)**: Open-source web visual map editor for GeoJSON files.
- **[Mapshaper](https://mapshaper.org/)**: A tool for editing Shapefile, GeoJSON, TopoJSON, and CSV files.
- **[HistoGIS](https://histogis.acdh.oeaw.ac.at/shapes/shapes/)**: Historical Central European borders as GeoJSON.

### Bibliographic Tools
- **[Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/)**: Great reference manager.
- **[Mendeley](https://www.mendeley.com/)**: Another great reference manager.
- **[EndNote](https://endnote.com/)**: Yet another great reference manager.
- **[Tropy](https://tropy.org/)**: A tool for managing and organizing research photos.

Commit message:

added AVAnnotate and LEAF to tools

tools.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Tools
permalink: /resources/tools
parent: Resources
---

## Tools

This page provides a curated list of tools that can be used for Digital Humanities projects. Whether you're interested in text analysis, data visualization, mapping, or any other area, the following resources can be incredibly useful.

Remember to explore each tool and dataset to see how they can best fit into your project or research!

### Text Analysis
- **[Voyant Tools](https://voyant-tools.org/)**: Web-based text analysis environment.
- **[Google Books Ngram Viewer](https://books.google.com/ngrams)**: Graph and compare word usage over time.
- **[TAPoR](http://tapor.ca/home)**: Discover research tools for studying texts.
- **[AntConc](https://www.laurenceanthony.net/software/antconc/)**: A text analysis toolkit, especially for concordancing 
- **[Stylo](https://sites.google.com/site/computationalstylistics/)**: Tool for stylometric analysis, often used in authorship attribution.
- **[MALLET](http://mallet.cs.umass.edu/)**: A Java-based package for statistical natural language processing, document classification, clustering, topic modeling, information extraction, and other machine learning applications to text (see also **[this browser-based topic model](https://mimno.infosci.cornell.edu/jsLDA/jslda.html), great for experimenting).
- **[Natural Language Toolkit](https://www.nltk.org/)**: A Python library for natural language processing.
- **[spaCy](https://spacy.io/)**: Another - slightly more advanced - Python library for natural language processing.
- **[Stanford CoreNLP](https://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/)**: Another library for natural language processing.
- **[TextBlob](https://textblob.readthedocs.io/en/dev/)**: Yet another Python library for natural language processing.
- **[Gensim](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/)**: A Python library for topic modeling, document indexing, and similarity retrieval with large corpora.
- **[Word2Vec](https://code.google.com/archive/p/word2vec/)**: A tool for computing continuous distributed representations of words.
- **[WordNet](https://wordnet.princeton.edu/)**: A lexical database for the English language.

### Content Management Systems
- **[Omeka](https://omeka.org/)**: A free, flexible, and open source web-publishing platform for the display of library, museum, archives, and scholarly collections and exhibitions.
- **[WordPress](https://wordpress.com/)**: A free and open-source content management system.
- **[Drupal](https://www.drupal.org/)**: Another free and open-source content management system.
- **[Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)**: A simple, blog-aware, static site generator.
- **[Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)**: A fast and modern static site generator.
- **[AVAnnotate](https://av-annotate.org/)**: Free and open source workflow and application for sharing annotations of audio and video artifacts and making digital exhibits and editions with AV materials.
- **[LEAF](https://www.leaf-vre.org/)**: LEAF is an editorial environment for open collaboration and publication. It provides web-based tools and online spaces for more scholars, teachers, and students to take part in collaborative digital knowledge production: creating, publishing, preserving, linking and sharing data across the Web.

### Text Digitization
- **[Transkribus](https://readcoop.eu/)**: A platform for the automated recognition, transcription, and searching of historical documents.
- **[daiR](https://dair.info/)**: R package for Google Document AI, a powerful server-based OCR processor with support for over 60 languages.
- **[Kraken](https://kraken.re/main/index.html)**: Open source software that specializes in non-Latin alphabets, including bidirectional, right-to-left, and top-to-bottom scripts. Kraken is Python-based and runs on the command line.
- **[CERberus](https://github.com/WHaverals/CERberus)**: Great tool for string comparison and error detection in HTR'd or OCR'd text. The tool provides an implementation of Character Error Rate calculation between a reference string and a hypothesis string, with various customization options.

### Data Visualization
- **[Tableau Public](https://public.tableau.com/en-us/s/)**: Create interactive data visualizations.
- **[Gephi](https://gephi.org/)**: Open-source software for all kinds of graphs and networks.
- **[RAWGraphs](https://rawgraphs.io/)**: Open-source data visualization framework, turning spreadsheets and into beautiful graphics.
- **[Datawrapper](https://www.datawrapper.de/)**: Create charts, maps, and tables.
- **[Palladio](http://hdlab.stanford.edu/palladio/)**: A web-based platform for the visualization of complex, multi-dimensional data.
- **[NetworkX](https://networkx.github.io/)**: A Python library for the creation, manipulation, and study of the structure, dynamics, and functions of complex networks.
- **[Network Navigator](https://networknavigator.jrladd.com/)**: A web-based tool designed to give you a first glimpse of your network data, with both metrics and visualizations.
- **[Cytoscape](https://cytoscape.org/)**: An open source software platform for visualizing complex networks and integrating these with any type of attribute data.
- **[WTFcsv](https://wtfcsv.com/)**: Tells you WTF is going on with your .csv file.
- **[Kumu](https://kumu.io/)**: A powerful data visualization platform that helps you organize complex information into interactive relationship maps.
- **[ClioVis](https://cliovis.com/)**: Interactive timeline, mind-mapping and presentation tool.

### Mapping and Spatial Analysis
- **[QGIS](https://qgis.org/en/site/)**: A free and open-source geographic information system.
- **[Leaflet](https://leafletjs.com/)**: JavaScript library for interactive maps.
- **[StoryMap JS](https://storymap.knightlab.com/)**: Create stories with maps.
- **[ArcGIS](https://www.arcgis.com/index.html)**: Create interactive maps and apps.
- **[GeoPandas](https://geopandas.org/)**: A Python library for working with geospatial data.
- **[GeoJSON.io](https://geojson.io/)**: A simple tool for creating, viewing, and sharing maps.
- **[Mapbox](https://www.mapbox.com/)**: Create custom maps.
- **[OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/)**: A free, editable map of the world.
- **[Recogito](https://recogito.pelagios.org/)**: A tool for the collaborative annotation of texts and images.
- **[GeoJSON.io](http://geojson.io/)**: Open-source web visual map editor for GeoJSON files.
- **[Mapshaper](https://mapshaper.org/)**: A tool for editing Shapefile, GeoJSON, TopoJSON, and CSV files.
- **[HistoGIS](https://histogis.acdh.oeaw.ac.at/shapes/shapes/)**: Historical Central European borders as GeoJSON.

### Image Analysis
- **[ImageJ](https://imagej.net/)**: A public domain Java image processing program.
- **[Collection Space Navigator](https://collection-space-navigator.github.io/)**: A browser-based visualization tool to explore, research, and curate large collections of visual digital artifacts that are associated with multidimensional data, such as vector embeddings or tables of metadata.

### Bibliographic Tools
- **[Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/)**: Great reference manager.
- **[Mendeley](https://www.mendeley.com/)**: Another great reference manager.
- **[EndNote](https://endnote.com/)**: Yet another great reference manager.
- **[Tropy](https://tropy.org/)**: A tool for managing and organizing research photos.
