_modules/week-07.md, before:

---
title: Week 7 - Topic Modeling
---
Topic modeling is a useful tool for exploring large collections of text. It can be used to identify themes in a corpus, to identify outliers, and to explore the relationships between different texts. It is a form of unsupervised machine learning, which means that it does not require a human to provide a training set of labeled data. During the first session of this week, we will look at how the sieving out of topics works, and how to interpret the results. In the second session, [Laure Thompson](https://cdh.princeton.edu/people/laure-thompson/) will visit our class and we'll use [jsLDA](https://mimno.infosci.cornell.edu/jsLDA/) to build a topic model of our own!

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 22</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Topic Modeling</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15W3Ij0SdhUfblqUoO7GtXnJTavciqCqB8MMuLgRhrw0/edit?usp=sharing)
- Pre-Class Reflection <small>&rarr; **no Perusall annotations required for these readings!**</small>
  - [Froehlich, Heather. _Moby Dick Is About Whales, or Why Should We Count Words?_](https://hfroehli.ch/2019/09/27/moby-dick-is-about-whales-or-why-should-we-count-words/).
  - [Blei, David M. “Topic Modeling and Digital Humanities.”](https://journalofdigitalhumanities.org/2-1/topic-modeling-and-digital-humanities-by-david-m-blei/) _Journal of Digital Humanities_, vol. 2, no. 1, 2012.
  - [Nelson, Robert K. _Mining the Dispatch_](https://dsl.richmond.edu/dispatch/).
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a>

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 24</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Topic Modeling with <i>jsLDA</i></span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
<!-- - Data, and other resources (prepared and taught by [dr. Laure Thompson](https://cdh.princeton.edu/people/laure-thompson/)): -->
  <!-- - [jsLDA website](https://mimno.infosci.cornell.edu/jsLDA/) -->
  <!-- - [Data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/10Wg9n4IutZanknePYxOSONTGm0lseFep?usp=sharing) -->
  <!-- - [Themes identified from 3,000 volumes of Speculative Fiction (SF)](https://mimno.infosci.cornell.edu/sf/) from the [HathiTrust](https://www.hathitrust.org/) digital library. -->
- Pre-Class **Skimming** (no Perusall annotations, nor reflection required!):
  - [Boyd-Graber, Jordan, et al. “Applications of Topic Models.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/boyd-graber-et-al-2017-applications-of-topic-models) _Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval_, vol. 11, no. 2–3, 2017, pp. 143–296. <small>&rarr; This is a big one! No need to read in depth; become acquainted with chapters 1.1, 1.2 (+ 1.3 if you want to get a bit more technical), chapter 3, and chapter 6.</small>
  - [Antoniak, Maria. _A Computational Reading of a Birth Stories Community_](https://maria-antoniak.github.io//2019/11/04/computational-reading-birth-stories.html). 5 Nov. 2019.

</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Update resources and links for week-07.md

_modules/week-07.md, after:

---
title: Week 7 - Topic Modeling
---
Topic modeling is a useful tool for exploring large collections of text. It can be used to identify themes in a corpus, to identify outliers, and to explore the relationships between different texts. It is a form of unsupervised machine learning, which means that it does not require a human to provide a training set of labeled data. During the first session of this week, we will look at how the sieving out of topics works, and how to interpret the results. In the second session, [Laure Thompson](https://cdh.princeton.edu/people/laure-thompson/) will visit our class and we'll use [jsLDA](https://mimno.infosci.cornell.edu/jsLDA/) to build a topic model of our own!

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 22</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Topic Modeling</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15W3Ij0SdhUfblqUoO7GtXnJTavciqCqB8MMuLgRhrw0/edit?usp=sharing)
- Pre-Class Reflection <small>&rarr; **no Perusall annotations required for these readings!**</small>
  - [Froehlich, Heather. _Moby Dick Is About Whales, or Why Should We Count Words?_](https://hfroehli.ch/2019/09/27/moby-dick-is-about-whales-or-why-should-we-count-words/).
  - [Blei, David M. “Topic Modeling and Digital Humanities.”](https://journalofdigitalhumanities.org/2-1/topic-modeling-and-digital-humanities-by-david-m-blei/) _Journal of Digital Humanities_, vol. 2, no. 1, 2012.
  - [Nelson, Robert K. _Mining the Dispatch_](https://dsl.richmond.edu/dispatch/).
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a>

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 24</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Topic Modeling with <i>jsLDA</i></span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
- Data, and other resources (prepared and taught by [dr. Laure Thompson](https://cdh.princeton.edu/people/laure-thompson/)):
  - [jsLDA website](https://mimno.infosci.cornell.edu/jsLDA/)
  - [Data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/10Wg9n4IutZanknePYxOSONTGm0lseFep?usp=sharing)
  - [Themes identified from 3,000 volumes of Speculative Fiction (SF)](https://mimno.infosci.cornell.edu/sf/) from the [HathiTrust](https://www.hathitrust.org/) digital library.
- Pre-Class **Skimming** (no Perusall annotations, nor reflection required!):
  - [Boyd-Graber, Jordan, et al. “Applications of Topic Models.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/boyd-graber-et-al-2017-applications-of-topic-models) _Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval_, vol. 11, no. 2–3, 2017, pp. 143–296. <small>&rarr; This is a big one! No need to read in depth; become acquainted with chapters 1.1, 1.2 (+ 1.3 if you want to get a bit more technical), chapter 3, and chapter 6.</small>
  - [Antoniak, Maria. _A Computational Reading of a Birth Stories Community_](https://maria-antoniak.github.io//2019/11/04/computational-reading-birth-stories.html). 5 Nov. 2019.

</div>
</details>
