_modules/week-05.md, before:

---
title: Week 5 - Text Digitization and Markup Languages
---

During our first session this week, we will look at  into the technology behind making text digitally readable. Our historic postcard collection provides the perfect case study for exploring both Optical Character Recognition (OCR) and Handwritten Text Recognition (HTR) technologies. In our subsequent session, we will explore the world of markup languages, such as HTML and XML. We will discuss their significance in structuring and presenting digital content, and explore how these languages serve as the backbone of content representation on the web.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 27</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Text Recognition Technologies</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - [Terras, Melissa. “The Role of the Library When Computers Can Read: Critically Adopting Handwritten Text Recognition (HTR) Technologies to Support Research.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/terras-2022-the-role-of-the-library-when-computers-can-read-c-404383324) _The Rise of AI_, edited by Amanda Wheatley and Sandy Hervieux, ACRL - Association of College & Research Libraries, 2022, pp. 137–48.
  <!-- - [Terras, Melissa. “Present, Not Voting: Digital Humanities in the Panopticon.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/terras_2012_present-not-voting) _Understanding Digital Humanities_, edited by David M. Berry, Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2012, pp. 172–90. -->
  - [Cordell, Ryan. “Q I-Jtb the Raven. Taking Dirty OCR Seriously.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/cordell_2017_q-i-jtb-the-raven) _Book History_, vol. 20, 2017, pp. 188–225.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>
</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 29</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Markup Languages</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - [Beshero-Bondar, Elisa, Lee Skallerup Bessette, Quinn Dombrowski, and Roopika Risam. “DSC #5: The DSC and the Impossible TEI Quandaries.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/dsc-5-the-dsc-and-the-impossible-tei-quandaries-the-data-sitters-club) _The Data-Sitters Club_. June 25, 2020.
  - [Budak, Nick. “Representing Gender in the Shakespeare and Company Project.”](https://shakespeareandco.princeton.edu/analysis/2019/12/representing-gender-in-the-shakespeare-and-company-project/) _Shakespeare and Company Project_, Version 1.5.7., 12 Dec. 2019.
</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Add no-Perusall annotations mention for Budak article

_modules/week-05.md, after:

---
title: Week 5 - Text Digitization and Markup Languages
---

During our first session this week, we will look at  into the technology behind making text digitally readable. Our historic postcard collection provides the perfect case study for exploring both Optical Character Recognition (OCR) and Handwritten Text Recognition (HTR) technologies. In our subsequent session, we will explore the world of markup languages, such as HTML and XML. We will discuss their significance in structuring and presenting digital content, and explore how these languages serve as the backbone of content representation on the web.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 27</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Text Recognition Technologies</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - [Terras, Melissa. “The Role of the Library When Computers Can Read: Critically Adopting Handwritten Text Recognition (HTR) Technologies to Support Research.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/terras-2022-the-role-of-the-library-when-computers-can-read-c-404383324) _The Rise of AI_, edited by Amanda Wheatley and Sandy Hervieux, ACRL - Association of College & Research Libraries, 2022, pp. 137–48.
  <!-- - [Terras, Melissa. “Present, Not Voting: Digital Humanities in the Panopticon.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/terras_2012_present-not-voting) _Understanding Digital Humanities_, edited by David M. Berry, Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2012, pp. 172–90. -->
  - [Cordell, Ryan. “Q I-Jtb the Raven. Taking Dirty OCR Seriously.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/cordell_2017_q-i-jtb-the-raven) _Book History_, vol. 20, 2017, pp. 188–225.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>
</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 29</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Markup Languages</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - [Beshero-Bondar, Elisa, Lee Skallerup Bessette, Quinn Dombrowski, and Roopika Risam. “DSC #5: The DSC and the Impossible TEI Quandaries.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/dsc-5-the-dsc-and-the-impossible-tei-quandaries-the-data-sitters-club) _The Data-Sitters Club_. June 25, 2020.
  - [Budak, Nick. “Representing Gender in the Shakespeare and Company Project.”](https://shakespeareandco.princeton.edu/analysis/2019/12/representing-gender-in-the-shakespeare-and-company-project/) _Shakespeare and Company Project_, Version 1.5.7., 12 Dec. 2019. <small>&rarr; **Perusall annotations are optional for this article.**</small>
</div>
</details>
