_modules/week-08.md, before:

---
title: Week 8 - Stylometry
---

In this module, we will discover the world of stylometry, a field that probes the unique stylistic fingerprint of authors. Utilizing the user-friendly package [Stylo](https://journal.r-project.org/archive/2016/RJ-2016-007/index.html), we will undertake a critical review and replication of Patrick Juola’s study (2013), which aimed to reveal the author hiding behind the pseudonym Robert Galbraith. In doing so, we will not only explore the power of stylometric techniques, but also discuss the broader implications of this type of research, emphasizing the ethical and scholarly consequences.


<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 29</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Stylometry</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
- Pre-Class Perusall Annotation (no Slack reflection, just annotations on Perusall!)
  - [Whissell, Cynthia. “Traditional and Emotional Stylometric Analysis of the Songs of Beatles Paul McCartney and John Lennon.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/whissell-1996-traditional-and-emotional-stylometric-analysis-of) _Computers and the Humanities_, vol. 30, no. 3, 1996, pp. 257–65.
  - [Holmes, David I., and Judit Kardos. “Who Was the Author? An Introduction to Stylometry.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/holmes_kardos_2003_who-was-the-author) _Chance_, vol. 16, no. 2, 2003, pp. 5–8.
  - **Make sure your annotations are added in Perusall** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**on the day before our class.**</a>
</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 31</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Authorship Attribution with <i>Stylo</i></span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
<!-- - Pre-Class Reflection -->
  <!-- - [Binongo, José Nilo G. “Who Wrote the 15th Book of Oz? An Application of Multivariate Analysis to Authorship Attribution.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/binongo_2003_who-wrote-the-15th-book-of-oz) _Chance_, vol. 16, no. 2, Mar. 2003, pp. 9–17. -->

    <!-- {: .notice-disclaimer } -->
    <!-- > **Disclaimer** -->
    <!-- > -->
    <!-- > The readings listed below are part of this week's lab effort to replicate [Patrick Juola's analysis on the authorship of J.K. Rowling](https://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=5315). It is however crucial to recognize that J.K. Rowling has become a figure of controversy owing to her remarks concerning the transgender community. The decision to include her work in our study does not equate to an endorsement of her opinions or a promotion of her work. Our goal is to undertake a computational examination of Rowling's writings, analyzing the stylistic distinctions between works published under her own name and those released under a pseudonym. The readings listed below are part of a broader discussion on the importance and challenges of addressing controversial creators and topics in Digital Humanities. I am curious about your insights. Can we separate our study of J.K. Rowling's authorship from her personal opinions, allowing the field of Digital Humanities to persist in its computational analysis of her work (and for me to continue incorporating this case in stylometry classes), or should we consider refraining from including her in our research altogether?  -->

  <!-- - [Juola, Patrick. “Rowling and ‘Galbraith’: An Authorial Analysis.”](https://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=5315) _Language Log_, 2013. -->
  <!-- - [McNamara, Mary. “Commentary: Here’s an Idea: Maybe If We All Stop Talking about J.K. Rowling, She’ll Just Go Away.”](https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/story/2023-02-21/jk-rowling-witch-trials-podcast-transphobia-commentary) _Los Angeles Times_, 21 Feb. 2023. -->
  <!-- - [Dederer, Claire. “Chapter 3. The Fan.” _Monsters. A Fan’s Dilemma_](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/dederer_2023_chapter-3), Alfred A. Knopf, 2023.  -->
  
    <!-- <small>&rarr; Perusall annotations not required for the readings on Rowling.</small> -->
  
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->

</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Update week-08.md with pre-class reflection link

_modules/week-08.md, after:

---
title: Week 8 - Stylometry
---

In this module, we will discover the world of stylometry, a field that probes the unique stylistic fingerprint of authors. Utilizing the user-friendly package [Stylo](https://journal.r-project.org/archive/2016/RJ-2016-007/index.html), we will undertake a critical review and replication of Patrick Juola’s study (2013), which aimed to reveal the author hiding behind the pseudonym Robert Galbraith. In doing so, we will not only explore the power of stylometric techniques, but also discuss the broader implications of this type of research, emphasizing the ethical and scholarly consequences.


<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 29</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Stylometry</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
- Pre-Class Perusall Annotation (no Slack reflection, just annotations on Perusall!)
  - [Whissell, Cynthia. “Traditional and Emotional Stylometric Analysis of the Songs of Beatles Paul McCartney and John Lennon.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/whissell-1996-traditional-and-emotional-stylometric-analysis-of) _Computers and the Humanities_, vol. 30, no. 3, 1996, pp. 257–65.
  - [Holmes, David I., and Judit Kardos. “Who Was the Author? An Introduction to Stylometry.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/holmes_kardos_2003_who-was-the-author) _Chance_, vol. 16, no. 2, 2003, pp. 5–8.
  - **Make sure your annotations are added in Perusall** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**on the day before our class.**</a>
</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 31</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Authorship Attribution with <i>Stylo</i></span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - [Binongo, José Nilo G. “Who Wrote the 15th Book of Oz? An Application of Multivariate Analysis to Authorship Attribution.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/binongo_2003_who-wrote-the-15th-book-of-oz) _Chance_, vol. 16, no. 2, Mar. 2003, pp. 9–17.

    {: .notice-disclaimer }
    > **Disclaimer**
    >
    > The readings listed below are part of this week's lab effort to replicate [Patrick Juola's analysis on the authorship of J.K. Rowling](https://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=5315). It is however crucial to recognize that J.K. Rowling has become a figure of controversy owing to her remarks concerning the transgender community. The decision to include her work in our study does not equate to an endorsement of her opinions or a promotion of her work. Our goal is to undertake a computational examination of Rowling's writings, analyzing the stylistic distinctions between works published under her own name and those released under a pseudonym. The readings listed below are part of a broader discussion on the importance and challenges of addressing controversial creators and topics in Digital Humanities. I am curious about your insights. Can we separate our study of J.K. Rowling's authorship from her personal opinions, allowing the field of Digital Humanities to persist in its computational analysis of her work (and for me to continue incorporating this case in stylometry classes), or should we consider refraining from including her in our research altogether? 

  - [Juola, Patrick. “Rowling and ‘Galbraith’: An Authorial Analysis.”](https://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=5315) _Language Log_, 2013.
  - [McNamara, Mary. “Commentary: Here’s an Idea: Maybe If We All Stop Talking about J.K. Rowling, She’ll Just Go Away.”](https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/story/2023-02-21/jk-rowling-witch-trials-podcast-transphobia-commentary) _Los Angeles Times_, 21 Feb. 2023.
  - [Dederer, Claire. “Chapter 3. The Fan.” _Monsters. A Fan’s Dilemma_](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/dederer_2023_chapter-3), Alfred A. Knopf, 2023. 
  
    <small>&rarr; Perusall annotations not required for the readings on Rowling.</small>
  
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a>

</div>
</details>
