_modules/week-03.md, before:

---
title: Week 3 - A Project of Our Own
---

In this module, we will start on our class-crowdsourced project featuring a dataset that captures the essence of Princeton University: the Princeton University Historical Postcard Collection. Part of this collection has been digitized and is available through the [Princeton University Digital Library](https://dpul.princeton.edu/collections/7d278t50j). We will outline the various stages of this project, from conception to completion, and identify the tools and techniques that will assist us throughout. We will also pay a visit to the [Mudd Library](https://library.princeton.edu/special-collections) where we will view the collection up close. In the second meeting of this week, we investigate the critical procedures involved in data cleaning, and how [OpenRefine](https://openrefine.org/) can be used in this process.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 13</span>
    <span class="label label-yellow">Field Trip</span>
    <span class="session-title">Exploring Princeton's Postcards</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Pre-Class Exercise:
  - [Explore the Princeton University Historical Postcard Collection](https://dpul.princeton.edu/historical-postcards) and select a postcard that you find interesting. Critically analyze it using **one** of the following guiding questions:

    1. If available, find the same postcard on a different online platform. Note differences in color, detail, or cropping. What do these variations suggest about digitizing analog materials?
    2. Assess the quality of the digital images. Are there details potentially lost or misrepresented in the digital version?
    3. Look at the metadata provided alongside the digital surrogate. How does this information affect your understanding of the postcard?
    4. Reflect on your experience navigating the digital collection. How does the digital interface impact your exploration and understanding?
    5. Hypothesize about how viewing the postcards digitally might differ from viewing them in person.
    6. What do you think the digitization process for this collection was like? What challenges might have been encountered? What choices were made?
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06FHFQKPKR" style="color: #ee6374;">**#postcards** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - [Listen to this podcast episode](https://pricelab.sas.upenn.edu/podcast/1/dream-lab-podcast-digital-surrogates), in which Dot Porter (Curator of Digital Research Services at UPenn's Schoenberg Institute for Manuscript Studies) is being interviewed by Stewart Varner (Managing Director of the Price Lab at UPenn).
    <iframe style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/episode/6CJZhZd57IxN0Y4geIBYeQ?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>
  - [Manžuch, Zinaida. “Ethical Issues in Digitization of Cultural Heritage.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/manz-uch_2017_ethical-issues-in-digitization-of-cultural-heritage) _Journal of Contemporary Archival Studies_, vol. 4, no. 2, 2017, pp. 1–17.
  - [Kropf, Evyn. “Will That Surrogate Do? Reflections on Material Manuscript Literacy in the Digital Environment from Islamic Manuscripts at the University of Michigan Library.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/kropf_2016_will-that-surrogate-do) _Manuscript Studies: A Journal of the Schoenberg Institute for Manuscript Studies_, 2016, pp. 52–70.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>
</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 15</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Cleaning</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Reflection:
  - [Schöch, Christof. “Big? Smart? Clean? Messy? Data in the Humanities.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/scho-ch_big) _Journal of Digital Humanities_, vol. 2, no. 3, 2013.
  - [Rawson, Katie, and Muñoz Trevor. “Against Cleaning.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/rawson_trevor_2019_against-cleaning) _Debates in the Digital Humanities_, University of Minnesota Press, 2019, pp. 279–92.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>

</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Add Broman and Woo article on data organization in spreadsheets

_modules/week-03.md, after:

---
title: Week 3 - A Project of Our Own
---

In this module, we will start on our class-crowdsourced project featuring a dataset that captures the essence of Princeton University: the Princeton University Historical Postcard Collection. Part of this collection has been digitized and is available through the [Princeton University Digital Library](https://dpul.princeton.edu/collections/7d278t50j). We will outline the various stages of this project, from conception to completion, and identify the tools and techniques that will assist us throughout. We will also pay a visit to the [Mudd Library](https://library.princeton.edu/special-collections) where we will view the collection up close. In the second meeting of this week, we investigate the critical procedures involved in data cleaning, and how [OpenRefine](https://openrefine.org/) can be used in this process.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 13</span>
    <span class="label label-yellow">Field Trip</span>
    <span class="session-title">Exploring Princeton's Postcards</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Pre-Class Exercise:
  - [Explore the Princeton University Historical Postcard Collection](https://dpul.princeton.edu/historical-postcards) and select a postcard that you find interesting. Critically analyze it using **one** of the following guiding questions:

    1. If available, find the same postcard on a different online platform. Note differences in color, detail, or cropping. What do these variations suggest about digitizing analog materials?
    2. Assess the quality of the digital images. Are there details potentially lost or misrepresented in the digital version?
    3. Look at the metadata provided alongside the digital surrogate. How does this information affect your understanding of the postcard?
    4. Reflect on your experience navigating the digital collection. How does the digital interface impact your exploration and understanding?
    5. Hypothesize about how viewing the postcards digitally might differ from viewing them in person.
    6. What do you think the digitization process for this collection was like? What challenges might have been encountered? What choices were made?
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06FHFQKPKR" style="color: #ee6374;">**#postcards** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - [Listen to this podcast episode](https://pricelab.sas.upenn.edu/podcast/1/dream-lab-podcast-digital-surrogates), in which Dot Porter (Curator of Digital Research Services at UPenn's Schoenberg Institute for Manuscript Studies) is being interviewed by Stewart Varner (Managing Director of the Price Lab at UPenn).
    <iframe style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/episode/6CJZhZd57IxN0Y4geIBYeQ?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>
  - [Manžuch, Zinaida. “Ethical Issues in Digitization of Cultural Heritage.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/manz-uch_2017_ethical-issues-in-digitization-of-cultural-heritage) _Journal of Contemporary Archival Studies_, vol. 4, no. 2, 2017, pp. 1–17.
  - [Kropf, Evyn. “Will That Surrogate Do? Reflections on Material Manuscript Literacy in the Digital Environment from Islamic Manuscripts at the University of Michigan Library.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/kropf_2016_will-that-surrogate-do) _Manuscript Studies: A Journal of the Schoenberg Institute for Manuscript Studies_, 2016, pp. 52–70.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>
</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 15</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Cleaning</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Reflection:
  - [Schöch, Christof. “Big? Smart? Clean? Messy? Data in the Humanities.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/scho-ch_big) _Journal of Digital Humanities_, vol. 2, no. 3, 2013.
  - [Rawson, Katie, and Muñoz Trevor. “Against Cleaning.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/rawson_trevor_2019_against-cleaning) _Debates in the Digital Humanities_, University of Minnesota Press, 2019, pp. 279–92.
  - [Broman, Karl W., and Kara H. Woo. “Data Organization in Spreadsheets.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/data-organization-in-spreadsheets-23277228) _The American Statistician_, vol. 72, no. 1, 2018, pp. 2–10. <a style="color: #ee6374;"> **Perusall annotations are optional for this article.**</a>
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>
</div>
</details>
