_modules/week-04.md, before:

---
title: Week 4 - Molding and Modeling Data (and cleaning it too after the snow storm)
---

In this module, we investigate the critical procedures involved in annotating data, thereby preparing it for analysis. These processes invariably entail the making of mindful decisions. As we gear up for the hands-on tutorials, we also explore an integral component of data analysis: data modeling. We will demystify this process, its bearing on our data handling techniques, and what constitutes an effective data model. In the second meeting of this week, students will present their Data Biographies.

<!-- <details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 20</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Modeling</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - [So, Richard Jean. “‘All Models Are Wrong.’”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/so_2017_-all-models-are-wrong) _PMLA_, vol. 132, no. 3, 2017, pp. 668–73.
  - [McCarty, Willard. “Modeling: A Study in Words and Meanings.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/mccarty_2004_modeling) _A Companion to Digital Humanities_, edited by Susan Schreibman et al., Blackwell Publishing Ltd, 2004, pp. 254–70.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9am on the day of our class.**</a>
</div>
</details> -->

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 20</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Cleaning</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WNAZoiC1tHxecpvQ1-EZ85lQORbbX97VGTdM98Q4_mI/edit?usp=sharing)
- Reflection:
  - [Schöch, Christof. “Big? Smart? Clean? Messy? Data in the Humanities.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/scho-ch_big) _Journal of Digital Humanities_, vol. 2, no. 3, 2013.
  - [Rawson, Katie, and Muñoz Trevor. “Against Cleaning.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/rawson_trevor_2019_against-cleaning) _Debates in the Digital Humanities_, University of Minnesota Press, 2019, pp. 279–92.
  - [Broman, Karl W., and Kara H. Woo. “Data Organization in Spreadsheets.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/data-organization-in-spreadsheets-23277228) _The American Statistician_, vol. 72, no. 1, 2018, pp. 2–10. <small>&rarr; **Perusall annotations are optional for this article.**</small>
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>
</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 22</span>
    <span class="label label-green">Present</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Biographies</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Update presentation guidelines and order in week-04.md

_modules/week-04.md, after:

---
title: Week 4 - Molding and Modeling Data (and cleaning it too after the snow storm)
---

In this module, we investigate the critical procedures involved in annotating data, thereby preparing it for analysis. These processes invariably entail the making of mindful decisions. As we gear up for the hands-on tutorials, we also explore an integral component of data analysis: data modeling. We will demystify this process, its bearing on our data handling techniques, and what constitutes an effective data model. In the second meeting of this week, students will present their Data Biographies.

<!-- <details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 20</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Modeling</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon_)
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - [So, Richard Jean. “‘All Models Are Wrong.’”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/so_2017_-all-models-are-wrong) _PMLA_, vol. 132, no. 3, 2017, pp. 668–73.
  - [McCarty, Willard. “Modeling: A Study in Words and Meanings.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/mccarty_2004_modeling) _A Companion to Digital Humanities_, edited by Susan Schreibman et al., Blackwell Publishing Ltd, 2004, pp. 254–70.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9am on the day of our class.**</a>
</div>
</details> -->

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 20</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Cleaning</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WNAZoiC1tHxecpvQ1-EZ85lQORbbX97VGTdM98Q4_mI/edit?usp=sharing)
- Reflection:
  - [Schöch, Christof. “Big? Smart? Clean? Messy? Data in the Humanities.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/scho-ch_big) _Journal of Digital Humanities_, vol. 2, no. 3, 2013.
  - [Rawson, Katie, and Muñoz Trevor. “Against Cleaning.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/rawson_trevor_2019_against-cleaning) _Debates in the Digital Humanities_, University of Minnesota Press, 2019, pp. 279–92.
  - [Broman, Karl W., and Kara H. Woo. “Data Organization in Spreadsheets.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/data-organization-in-spreadsheets-23277228) _The American Statistician_, vol. 72, no. 1, 2018, pp. 2–10. <small>&rarr; **Perusall annotations are optional for this article.**</small>
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9:00AM on the day of our class.**</a>
</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 22</span>
    <span class="label label-green">Present</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Biographies</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Presentation overview:
  - On this day, students will present their Data Biographies. This is a chance to share the intriguing stories behind the datasets you've explored!
  - Each presentation should last approximately -- but also no more than -- **4 minutes**, followed by a brief (~1 minute) Q&A session.
  - Focus on the **narrative** of your Data Biography, presenting on aspects you find interesting, such as origin, collector(s), collection method(s), intended use, and any limitations or ethical considerations.
  - Use visuals or excerpts from your dataset to illustrate your points and engage the audience.
  - For more details, refer to the [assignment description](https://whaverals.github.io/IntroDH2024/assignments/).
- Presentation guidelines:
  - Maximum of **five (5) slides** per presentation.
  - Please add your slides to [this shared slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mTgty4Mz-QqjX4BsHRMptukM-UFkppUwzIpYSDEeUT0/edit?usp=sharing) before the start of the class.
  - Strict time limit of **four (4) minutes** for each presentation.
  - Order of presentations:

  | **Order - Presenter(s)** | **Order - Presenter(s)**     |
  |--------------------------|------------------------------|
  | 1 - _Alison_             | 8 - _Helen_                  |
  | 2 - _Layla_              | 9 - _Colin + Melissa_        |
  | 3 - _Talia_              | 10 - _James_                 |
  | 4 - _Clay_               | 11 - _Raphaela + Emanuelle_  |
  | 5 - _Andrew_             | 12 - _Pippa_                 |
  | 6 - _Anya_               | 13 - _Yaashree_              |
  | 7 - _Ethan_               | 14 - _Pia_                   |

</div>
</details>
