_modules/week-06.md, before:

---
title: Week 6 - Distant Reading
---

This week begins with a hands-on lab session where we will be leveraging the web-based [Voyant Tools](https://voyant-tools.org/), known for their user-friendly, powerful capabilities for visual text analysis. This module is designed to be both instructive and engaging, providing you with practical experience using digital tools to analyze large textual data sets. Drawing inspiration from the works of [El Khatib and Ross (2022)](https://doi.org/10.17613/42c8-mk80), we will conduct an ecological reading of Emily Brontë’s novel *Jane Eyre*, and an exploratory thematic analysis of Mary Shelley’s *Frankenstein*. 

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 8</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Applying <i>Voyant Tools</i></span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
<!-- - Reflection: -->
  <!-- - [Underwood, Ted. “A Genealogy of Distant Reading.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/underwood_2017_a-genealogy-of-distant-reading) _Digital Humanities Quarterly_, vol. 11, no. 2, 2017. -->
  <!-- - [Tahmasebi, Nina. _The Strengths and Pitfalls of Large-Scale Text Mining for Literary Studies_.](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/nina-tahmasebi-synergies-28-september-2020-327043682) Synergies Conference. Copenhagen, 28 September 2020. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 10</span>
    <span class="label label-green">Present</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Biographies</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
<!-- - Pre-Class Reflection: -->
  <!-- - [Da, Nan Z. “The Computational Case against Computational Literary Studies.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/da_2019_the-computational-case-against-computational-literary-studies) _Critical Inquiry_, vol. 45, no. 3, Mar. 2019, pp. 601–39. -->
  <!-- - [Nguyen, Dong, et al. “How We Do Things With Words: Analyzing Text as Social and Cultural Data.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/how-we-do-things-with-words-analyzing-text-as-social-and-cultural-data) _Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence_, vol. 3, article 63, Aug. 2020, p. 1-14. -->
  <!-- - [Smits, Thomas, and Melvin Wevers. “A Multimodal Turn in Digital Humanities. Using Contrastive Machine Learning Models to Explore, Enrich, and Analyze Digital Visual Historical Collections.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/a-multimodal-turn-in-digital-humanities-using-contrastive-machine-learning-models-to-explore-enrich-and-analyze-digital-visual-historical-collections) _Digital Scholarship in the Humanities_, vol. 38, no. 3, Aug. 2023, pp. 1267–80. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->

</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Update presentation guidelines for Data Biography

_modules/week-06.md, after:

---
title: Week 6 - Distant Reading
---

This week begins with a hands-on lab session where we will be leveraging the web-based [Voyant Tools](https://voyant-tools.org/), known for their user-friendly, powerful capabilities for visual text analysis. This module is designed to be both instructive and engaging, providing you with practical experience using digital tools to analyze large textual data sets. Drawing inspiration from the works of [El Khatib and Ross (2022)](https://doi.org/10.17613/42c8-mk80), we will conduct an ecological reading of Emily Brontë’s novel *Jane Eyre*, and an exploratory thematic analysis of Mary Shelley’s *Frankenstein*. 

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 8</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">Applying <i>Voyant Tools</i></span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
<!-- - Reflection: -->
  <!-- - [Underwood, Ted. “A Genealogy of Distant Reading.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/underwood_2017_a-genealogy-of-distant-reading) _Digital Humanities Quarterly_, vol. 11, no. 2, 2017. -->
  <!-- - [Tahmasebi, Nina. _The Strengths and Pitfalls of Large-Scale Text Mining for Literary Studies_.](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/nina-tahmasebi-synergies-28-september-2020-327043682) Synergies Conference. Copenhagen, 28 September 2020. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Oct 10</span>
    <span class="label label-green">Present</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Biographies</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
  - On this day, students will present their Data Biographies. This is a chance to share the intriguing stories behind the datasets you've explored!
  - Each presentation should last approximately -- but also no more than -- **4 minutes**, followed by a brief (~1 minute) Q&A/feedback session.
  - Focus on the **narrative** of your Data Biography, presenting on aspects you find interesting, such as origin, collector(s), collection method(s), intended use, and any limitations or ethical considerations.
  - Use visuals or excerpts from your dataset to illustrate your points and engage the audience.
  - For more details, refer to the [assignment description](https://whaverals.github.io/IntroDH-Fall2024/assignments/#assignments).
  - Presentation guidelines:
    - Maximum of **five (5) slides** per presentation, and a very strict time limit of **four - *4!* - minutes**. You will be cut off if you exceed this limit!
    - Please add your slides to the shared slide deck (*link coming soon*) before the start of the class.
  - Order of presentations (*TBA*)

<!-- | **Order - Presenter(s)** | **Order - Presenter(s)**     | -->
<!-- |--------------------------|------------------------------| -->
<!-- | 1 - _name_               | 8 - _name_                   | -->
<!-- | 2 - _name_               | 9 - _name_                   | -->
<!-- | 3 - _name_               | 10 - _name_                  | -->
<!-- | 4 - _name_               | 11 - _name_                  | -->
<!-- | 5 - _name_               | 12 - _name_                  | -->
<!-- | 6 - _name_               | 13 - _name_                  | -->
<!-- | 7 - _name_               | 14 - _name_                  | -->
  
<!-- - Pre-Class Reflection: -->
  <!-- - [Da, Nan Z. “The Computational Case against Computational Literary Studies.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/da_2019_the-computational-case-against-computational-literary-studies) _Critical Inquiry_, vol. 45, no. 3, Mar. 2019, pp. 601–39. -->
  <!-- - [Nguyen, Dong, et al. “How We Do Things With Words: Analyzing Text as Social and Cultural Data.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/how-we-do-things-with-words-analyzing-text-as-social-and-cultural-data) _Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence_, vol. 3, article 63, Aug. 2020, p. 1-14. -->
  <!-- - [Smits, Thomas, and Melvin Wevers. “A Multimodal Turn in Digital Humanities. Using Contrastive Machine Learning Models to Explore, Enrich, and Analyze Digital Visual Historical Collections.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/a-multimodal-turn-in-digital-humanities-using-contrastive-machine-learning-models-to-explore-enrich-and-analyze-digital-visual-historical-collections) _Digital Scholarship in the Humanities_, vol. 38, no. 3, Aug. 2023, pp. 1267–80. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->

</div>
</details>
