_modules/week-10.md, before:

---
title: Week 10 - 'Making' in DH and GIS
---
This module introduces the hands-on dimension of Digital Humanities research, focusing on how "making" is becoming an essential part of its practice. We'll explore the role of embodiment in research through activities like 3D printing, electronics, and other forms of physical creation. This will set the stage for our upcoming lab on GIS, by examining how physical and spatial perspectives can enhance DH projects.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Nov 12</span>
    <span class="label label-green">Field Trip</span>
    <span class="session-title">Makerspace</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- We will meet at the [**Makerspace**](https://library.princeton.edu/services/makerspace) in the Lewis Science Library, A-level at 11:00AM. No need to bring your laptop to this session!
<!-- - Pre-Class Reflection: -->
  <!-- - McCandless, David. _The Beauty of Data Visualization_. TEDGlobal 2010. [Video](https://www.ted.com/talks/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization). -->
  <!-- <div style="max-width:854px; margin: auto; box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.2); border-radius: 10px; overflow: hidden;"><div style="position:relative;height:0;padding-bottom:56.25%"><iframe src="https://embed.ted.com/talks/lang/en/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization" width="854" height="480" style="position:absolute;left:0;top:0;width:100%;height:100%" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen></iframe></div></div> -->
  <!-- - [Walker Rettberg, Jill. “Ways of Knowing with Data Visualizations.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/ways-of-knowing-with-data-visualizations) _Data Visualization in Society_, edited by Martin Engebretsen and Helen Kennedy, Amsterdam University Press, 2020, pp. 35–48. -->
  <!-- - Few, Stephen. “Silly Graphs That Are Best Forsaken.” _Show Me the Numbers: Designing Tables and Graphs to Enlighten_, Analytics Press, 2012, pp. 271–85. -->
  <!-- - [Rosenberg, Daniel. “Against Infographics.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/against-infographics) _Art Journal_, vol. 74, no. 4, Oct. 2015, pp. 38–57. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->
<!-- - Pre-Class Exercise: -->
  <!-- - Every year since 2012, the Digital Humanities community has recognized outstanding contributions through the [**Digital Humanities Awards** 🏆](http://dhawards.org/). On the award website, you'll find examples of data visualization that are not only stunning but also effective in conveying complex information.  -->
    <!-- 1. **Explore** the [nominees from this year](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2023/voting/), or past years ([2012](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2012/nominations/), [2013](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2013/results/), [2014](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2014/voting/), [2015](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2015/voting/), [2016](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2016/voting/), [2017](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2017/voting/), [2018](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2018/voting/), [2019](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2019/voting/), [2020](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2020/voting/), [2021](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2021/voting/), [2022](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2022/voting/)).  -->
    <!-- 2. **Choose a visualization** that resonates with you.  -->
    <!-- 3. **Capture a screenshot** of this visualization and **add it to our session's [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CZ1AQo9jAT7HKHvDnXSrSQPeqznO-GNt1W1BkbcSfOc/edit?usp=sharing)** (limit yourself to one slide; for interactive visualizations, include a link to allow us to explore the visualization in detail during class).  -->
    <!-- 4. While a formal presentation isn't required, prepare to **discuss** the following in class: What is being depicted? In what ways is it presented? Why do you believe this visualization is impactful? Think about its strengths and any potential weaknesses. -->

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Nov 14</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">GIS</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
<!-- - Pre-Class Reflection: -->
  <!-- - [Monmonier, Mark S. “Chapter 11. Data Maps: A Thicket of Thorny Choices.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/monmonier_2018_chapter-11) _How to Lie with Maps_, Third edition, The University of Chicago Press, 2018, pp. 153–78. -->
  <!-- - [Glasze, Georg. “Language(s), Discourse(s), Space(s) – and Their Transformations in the Digital Age: Research Approaches from Cultural and Social Geography.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/glasze_2024_language-s-discourse-s-space-s-and-their-transformations-in-the-digital) _Geographical Research in the Digital Humanities_, edited by Finn Dammann and Dominik Kremer, Bielefeld University Press, 2024, pp. 45–62. -->
  <!-- - [Bond, E., Sarah. “Mapping Racism And Assessing the Success of the Digital Humanities.”](https://sarahemilybond.com/2017/10/20/mapping-racism-and-assessing-the-success-of-the-digital-humanities/) _History From Below_, 20 Oct. 2017. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->
</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Update week-10.md to include pre-class reflection and Perusall annotations

_modules/week-10.md, after:

---
title: Week 10 - 'Making' in DH and GIS
---
This module introduces the hands-on dimension of Digital Humanities research, focusing on how "making" is becoming an essential part of its practice. We'll explore the role of embodiment in research through activities like 3D printing, electronics, and other forms of physical creation. This will set the stage for our upcoming lab on GIS, by examining how physical and spatial perspectives can enhance DH projects.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Nov 12</span>
    <span class="label label-green">Field Trip</span>
    <span class="session-title">Makerspace</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- We will meet at the [**Makerspace**](https://library.princeton.edu/services/makerspace) in the Lewis Science Library, A-level at 11:00AM. No need to bring your laptop to this session!
<!-- - Pre-Class Reflection: -->
  <!-- - McCandless, David. _The Beauty of Data Visualization_. TEDGlobal 2010. [Video](https://www.ted.com/talks/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization). -->
  <!-- <div style="max-width:854px; margin: auto; box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.2); border-radius: 10px; overflow: hidden;"><div style="position:relative;height:0;padding-bottom:56.25%"><iframe src="https://embed.ted.com/talks/lang/en/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization" width="854" height="480" style="position:absolute;left:0;top:0;width:100%;height:100%" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen></iframe></div></div> -->
  <!-- - [Walker Rettberg, Jill. “Ways of Knowing with Data Visualizations.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/ways-of-knowing-with-data-visualizations) _Data Visualization in Society_, edited by Martin Engebretsen and Helen Kennedy, Amsterdam University Press, 2020, pp. 35–48. -->
  <!-- - Few, Stephen. “Silly Graphs That Are Best Forsaken.” _Show Me the Numbers: Designing Tables and Graphs to Enlighten_, Analytics Press, 2012, pp. 271–85. -->
  <!-- - [Rosenberg, Daniel. “Against Infographics.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/against-infographics) _Art Journal_, vol. 74, no. 4, Oct. 2015, pp. 38–57. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->
<!-- - Pre-Class Exercise: -->
  <!-- - Every year since 2012, the Digital Humanities community has recognized outstanding contributions through the [**Digital Humanities Awards** 🏆](http://dhawards.org/). On the award website, you'll find examples of data visualization that are not only stunning but also effective in conveying complex information.  -->
    <!-- 1. **Explore** the [nominees from this year](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2023/voting/), or past years ([2012](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2012/nominations/), [2013](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2013/results/), [2014](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2014/voting/), [2015](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2015/voting/), [2016](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2016/voting/), [2017](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2017/voting/), [2018](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2018/voting/), [2019](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2019/voting/), [2020](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2020/voting/), [2021](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2021/voting/), [2022](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2022/voting/)).  -->
    <!-- 2. **Choose a visualization** that resonates with you.  -->
    <!-- 3. **Capture a screenshot** of this visualization and **add it to our session's [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CZ1AQo9jAT7HKHvDnXSrSQPeqznO-GNt1W1BkbcSfOc/edit?usp=sharing)** (limit yourself to one slide; for interactive visualizations, include a link to allow us to explore the visualization in detail during class).  -->
    <!-- 4. While a formal presentation isn't required, prepare to **discuss** the following in class: What is being depicted? In what ways is it presented? Why do you believe this visualization is impactful? Think about its strengths and any potential weaknesses. -->

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Nov 14</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">GIS</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
- Pre-Class Reflection and Perusall Annotations (only Perusall annotations for the first reading!):
  - Presner, Todd Samuel, et al. [*HyperCities: Thick Mapping in the Digital Humanities*](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/presner-et-al_2014_hypercities). Harvard University Press, 2014. Read the following chapters: *Lexicon* (pp. 12-21) & *Thick Mapping in the Digital Humanities* (pp. 49-65).
  - Spend some time on this webiste [**Mapping Inequality**](https://dsl.richmond.edu/panorama/redlining) and explore the maps and data visualizations.

  <!-- - [Bond, E., Sarah. “Mapping Racism And Assessing the Success of the Digital Humanities.”](https://sarahemilybond.com/2017/10/20/mapping-racism-and-assessing-the-success-of-the-digital-humanities/) _History From Below_, 20 Oct. 2017. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->
</div>
</details>
