_modules/week-02.md, before:

---
title: Week 2 - Data Culture(s)
---

This week we survey the expansive terrain of Digital Humanities. First, we'll engage in a discussion on 'data' as a core concept, and the methodologies that propel the field forward. Later on this week, we focus on practical applications of metadata and data description.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>  
    <span class="date-label">Sept 10</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Getting our data together</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
    
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_fvaAmnKeJD8tLRKA8Ai0H_zaAlHIKiJkL_uPIXYWhk/edit?usp=sharing)
  
- Pre-Class Exercise:
  - Play around with [Google's Ngram Viewer](https://books.google.com/ngrams) to investigate two terms of your choice (e.g. 'car' vs. 'automobile'). Analyze and interpret the trends you observe. Consider the following: what intriguing patterns -- if any -- emerge? Can specific historical events explain shifts in the usage of these terms? You are welcome to do a quick online search to support your interpretations, but keep it concise -- no more than three sentences for each term.
  - **Post your analysis along with a screenshot of your NGram search in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07L01NME5Q" style="color: #ee6374;">**#ngrams** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before the day of our class.**</a>

- Pre-Class Perusall Annotation (no Slack reflection, just annotations on Perusall!):
  <!-- - [Rosenberg, Daniel. 2013. "Data before the Fact."](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/rosenberg_2013_data-before-the-fact) _Raw Data Is an Oxymoron_, 15–40. -->
  - [Ramsay, Stephen. 2014. "The Hermeneutics of Screwing Around; or What You Do with a Million Books."](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/ramsay_2014_the-hermeneutics-of-screwing-around-or-what-you-dowith-a-million-books) In _Pastplay: Teaching and Learning History with Technology_, edited by Kevin B. Kee, 111–20. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Sept 12</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Guest Lecture</span>
    <span class="session-title">Metadata and data description</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
- Pre-Class Perusall Annotation(no Slack reflection, just annotations on Perusall!)
  - [Drucker, Johanna. “Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/humanities-approaches-to-graphical-display-3308149) _Digital Humanities Quarterly_, vol. 5, no. 1, 2011.
  <!-- - [Manovich, Lev. “Database as Symbolic Form.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/manovich_1999_database-as-symbolic-form) _Convergence: The International Journal of Research into New Media Technologies_, vol. 5, no. 2, June 1999, pp. 80–99. -->
  <!-- - [Pomerantz, Jeffrey. “Introduction.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/pomerantz_2015_introduction) _Metadata_, The MIT Press, 2015, pp. 1–18. -->
  <!-- - [Gebru, Timnit, et al. “Datasheets for Datasets.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/datasheets-for-datasets-846236723) _Communications of the ACM_, vol. 64, no. 12, Dec. 2021, pp. 86–92. -->
  <!-- - [Alkemade, Henk, et al. “Datasheets for Digital Cultural Heritage Datasets.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/datasheets-for-digital-cultural-heritage-datasets) _Journal of Open Humanities Data_, vol. 9, no. 17, 2023, pp. 1–11. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->
<!-- - **Optional**, complimentary reading for further interest: -->
  <!-- - [Hoffman, Gretchen. “How Are Cookbooks Classified in Libraries? An Examination of LCSH and LCC.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/hoffman_2013_how-are-cookbooks-classified-in-libraries) _Proceedings from North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization_, vol. 4, no. 1, 2013, pp. 100–11. -->
  <!-- - Borgman, Christine L. “Big Data, Little Data, No Data: Scholarship in the Networked World.” _The MIT Press_, 2015, pp. 1–18. -->
</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Update Perusall annotation instructions in week-02.md

_modules/week-02.md, after:

---
title: Week 2 - Data Culture(s)
---

This week we survey the expansive terrain of Digital Humanities. First, we'll engage in a discussion on 'data' as a core concept, and the methodologies that propel the field forward. Later on this week, we focus on practical applications of metadata and data description.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>  
    <span class="date-label">Sept 10</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Getting our data together</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
    
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_fvaAmnKeJD8tLRKA8Ai0H_zaAlHIKiJkL_uPIXYWhk/edit?usp=sharing)
  
- Pre-Class Exercise:
  - Play around with [Google's Ngram Viewer](https://books.google.com/ngrams) to investigate two terms of your choice (e.g. 'car' vs. 'automobile'). Analyze and interpret the trends you observe. Consider the following: what intriguing patterns -- if any -- emerge? Can specific historical events explain shifts in the usage of these terms? You are welcome to do a quick online search to support your interpretations, but keep it concise -- no more than three sentences for each term.
  - **Post your analysis along with a screenshot of your NGram search in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07L01NME5Q" style="color: #ee6374;">**#ngrams** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before the day of our class.**</a>

- Pre-Class Perusall Annotation (no Slack reflection, just annotations on Perusall!):
  <!-- - [Rosenberg, Daniel. 2013. "Data before the Fact."](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/rosenberg_2013_data-before-the-fact) _Raw Data Is an Oxymoron_, 15–40. -->
  - [Ramsay, Stephen. 2014. "The Hermeneutics of Screwing Around; or What You Do with a Million Books."](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/ramsay_2014_the-hermeneutics-of-screwing-around-or-what-you-dowith-a-million-books) In _Pastplay: Teaching and Learning History with Technology_, edited by Kevin B. Kee, 111–20. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Sept 12</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Guest Lecture</span>
    <span class="session-title">Metadata and data description</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- Slides (_coming soon!_)
- Pre-Class Perusall Annotation(no Slack reflection, just annotations on Perusall!)
  - [Drucker, Johanna. “Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/intro-to-digital-humanities-fall-2024/humanities-approaches-to-graphical-display-3308149) _Digital Humanities Quarterly_, vol. 5, no. 1, 2011.
  - **Make sure your annotations are added in Perusall** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**on the day before our class later.**</a>
  <!-- - [Manovich, Lev. “Database as Symbolic Form.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/manovich_1999_database-as-symbolic-form) _Convergence: The International Journal of Research into New Media Technologies_, vol. 5, no. 2, June 1999, pp. 80–99. -->
  <!-- - [Pomerantz, Jeffrey. “Introduction.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/pomerantz_2015_introduction) _Metadata_, The MIT Press, 2015, pp. 1–18. -->
  <!-- - [Gebru, Timnit, et al. “Datasheets for Datasets.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/datasheets-for-datasets-846236723) _Communications of the ACM_, vol. 64, no. 12, Dec. 2021, pp. 86–92. -->
  <!-- - [Alkemade, Henk, et al. “Datasheets for Digital Cultural Heritage Datasets.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/datasheets-for-digital-cultural-heritage-datasets) _Journal of Open Humanities Data_, vol. 9, no. 17, 2023, pp. 1–11. -->
  <!-- - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh-fall2024.slack.com/archives/C07JYA7QTM0" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**no later than 11:59PM on the day before our class.**</a> -->
<!-- - **Optional**, complimentary reading for further interest: -->
  <!-- - [Hoffman, Gretchen. “How Are Cookbooks Classified in Libraries? An Examination of LCSH and LCC.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/hoffman_2013_how-are-cookbooks-classified-in-libraries) _Proceedings from North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization_, vol. 4, no. 1, 2013, pp. 100–11. -->
  <!-- - Borgman, Christine L. “Big Data, Little Data, No Data: Scholarship in the Networked World.” _The MIT Press_, 2015, pp. 1–18. -->
</div>
</details>
