_modules/week-01.md, before:

---
title: Week 1 - Intro to and Foundations of Digital Humanities
---

In this module, we will take our time to become acquinted with the contours that delineate the field known as Digital Humanities. We discuss what are the essential or minimal ingredients (if there are any), and critically examine various definitions. We traverse the landscape of Digital Humanities and explore how early definitions of the field differ from more recent attempts at defining it.


<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Jan 30</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Acquaintances</span>
  </summary>
    <div markdown="1">
    
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TRt2UcYxk5XTHaz-DATS15u0hntrU5HKnMWaqPY7qUM/edit?usp=sharing)

</div>
  </details>


<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 1</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Foundations</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">

- [Slides](#)
- Readings and Assignments:
  - [Examine this website](https://whatisdigitalhumanities.com/)
  - [Liu, Alan. “Imagining the New Media Encounter.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/imagining-the-new-media-encounter) In _A Companion to Digital Literary Studies_, edited by Ray Siemens and Susan Schreibman, pp. 1–25. Wiley, 2013.
  - [Kirschenbaum, Matthew. 2012. "What Is Digital Humanities and What’s It Doing in English Departments?"]() In _Debates in the Digital Humanities_, 3–11. University of Minnesota Press.

</div>
</details>

Commit message:

Update module materials and assignments

_modules/week-01.md, after:

---
title: Week 1 - Intro to and Foundations of Digital Humanities
---

In this module, we will take our time to become acquinted with the contours that delineate the field known as Digital Humanities. We discuss what are the essential or minimal ingredients (if there are any), and critically examine various definitions. We traverse the landscape of Digital Humanities and explore how early definitions of the field differ from more recent attempts at defining it.


<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Jan 30</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Acquaintances</span>
  </summary>
    <div markdown="1">
    
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TRt2UcYxk5XTHaz-DATS15u0hntrU5HKnMWaqPY7qUM/edit?usp=sharing)

</div>
  </details>


<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Feb 1</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Foundations</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">

- [Slides](#)
- Materials and Assignments:
  - [Examine this website](https://whatisdigitalhumanities.com/), hit the "New Quote" button a few times, and read the definition that appears. Some guiding questions:
    - How do the definitions you encounter vary each time you refresh the page? What does this diversity tell you about the nature of Digital Humanities as a field? What are the commonalities between the definitions? What are the differences? Consider the role technology plays in these definitions. Is it merely a tool, or does it fundamentally reshape the humanities?
  - [Liu, Alan. “Imagining the New Media Encounter.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/imagining-the-new-media-encounter) In _A Companion to Digital Literary Studies_, edited by Ray Siemens and Susan Schreibman, pp. 1–25. Wiley, 2013.
  - [Kirschenbaum, Matthew. 2012. "What Is Digital Humanities and What’s It Doing in English Departments?"]() In _Debates in the Digital Humanities_, 3–11. University of Minnesota Press.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack.** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**Due: 11pm on the evening before class.**</a>


</div>
</details>
