_modules/week-09.md, before:

---
title: Week 9 - Data Visualization and GIS
---
This module focuses on the visual dimension of Digital Humanities research. Often, the dissemination of results takes the form of graphs or they are displayed via graphical interfaces. We will explore a whole spectrum of data visualization practices, citing examples of the good, the bad, and even the downright ugly. In this sense, the session is aimed to prepare us for the coming labs on mapping and network analysis.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Apr 2</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Visualization</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CZ1AQo9jAT7HKHvDnXSrSQPeqznO-GNt1W1BkbcSfOc/edit?usp=sharing)
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - McCandless, David. _The Beauty of Data Visualization_. TEDGlobal 2010. [Video](https://www.ted.com/talks/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization).
  <div style="max-width:854px; margin: auto; box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.2); border-radius: 10px; overflow: hidden;"><div style="position:relative;height:0;padding-bottom:56.25%"><iframe src="https://embed.ted.com/talks/lang/en/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization" width="854" height="480" style="position:absolute;left:0;top:0;width:100%;height:100%" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen></iframe></div></div>
  - [Walker Rettberg, Jill. “Ways of Knowing with Data Visualizations.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/ways-of-knowing-with-data-visualizations) _Data Visualization in Society_, edited by Martin Engebretsen and Helen Kennedy, Amsterdam University Press, 2020, pp. 35–48.
  <!-- - Few, Stephen. “Silly Graphs That Are Best Forsaken.” _Show Me the Numbers: Designing Tables and Graphs to Enlighten_, Analytics Press, 2012, pp. 271–85. -->
  - [Rosenberg, Daniel. “Against Infographics.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/against-infographics) _Art Journal_, vol. 74, no. 4, Oct. 2015, pp. 38–57.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9am on the day of our class.**</a>
- Pre-Class Exercise:
  - Every year since 2012, the Digital Humanities community has recognized outstanding contributions through the [**Digital Humanities Awards** 🏆](http://dhawards.org/). On the award website, you'll find examples of data visualization that are not only stunning but also effective in conveying complex information. 
    1. **Explore** the [nominees from this year](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2023/voting/), or past years ([2012](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2012/nominations/), [2013](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2013/results/), [2014](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2014/voting/), [2015](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2015/voting/), [2016](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2016/voting/), [2017](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2017/voting/), [2018](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2018/voting/), [2019](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2019/voting/), [2020](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2020/voting/), [2021](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2021/voting/), [2022](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2022/voting/)). 
    2. **Choose a visualization** that resonates with you. 
    3. **Capture a screenshot** of this visualization and **add it to our session's [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CZ1AQo9jAT7HKHvDnXSrSQPeqznO-GNt1W1BkbcSfOc/edit?usp=sharing)** (limit yourself to one slide; for interactive visualizations, include a link to allow us to explore the visualization in detail during class). 
    4. While a formal presentation isn't required, prepare to **discuss** the following in class: What is being depicted? In what ways is it presented? Why do you believe this visualization is impactful? Think about its strengths and any potential weaknesses.

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Apr 4</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">GIS</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
  - Slides (_coming soon_)
  - Pre-Class Reflection:
    - [Monmonier, Mark S. “Chapter 11. Data Maps: A Thicket of Thorny Choices.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/monmonier_2018_chapter-11) _How to Lie with Maps_, Third edition, The University of Chicago Press, 2018, pp. 153–78.
    - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9am on the day of our class.**</a>

  </div>
</details>

Commit message:

Add research paper on language and space in the digital age

_modules/week-09.md, after:

---
title: Week 9 - Data Visualization and GIS
---
This module focuses on the visual dimension of Digital Humanities research. Often, the dissemination of results takes the form of graphs or they are displayed via graphical interfaces. We will explore a whole spectrum of data visualization practices, citing examples of the good, the bad, and even the downright ugly. In this sense, the session is aimed to prepare us for the coming labs on mapping and network analysis.

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Apr 2</span>
    <span class="label label-blue">Discussion</span>
    <span class="session-title">Data Visualization</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
- [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CZ1AQo9jAT7HKHvDnXSrSQPeqznO-GNt1W1BkbcSfOc/edit?usp=sharing)
- Pre-Class Reflection:
  - McCandless, David. _The Beauty of Data Visualization_. TEDGlobal 2010. [Video](https://www.ted.com/talks/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization).
  <div style="max-width:854px; margin: auto; box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0,0,0,0.2); border-radius: 10px; overflow: hidden;"><div style="position:relative;height:0;padding-bottom:56.25%"><iframe src="https://embed.ted.com/talks/lang/en/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization" width="854" height="480" style="position:absolute;left:0;top:0;width:100%;height:100%" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen></iframe></div></div>
  - [Walker Rettberg, Jill. “Ways of Knowing with Data Visualizations.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/ways-of-knowing-with-data-visualizations) _Data Visualization in Society_, edited by Martin Engebretsen and Helen Kennedy, Amsterdam University Press, 2020, pp. 35–48.
  <!-- - Few, Stephen. “Silly Graphs That Are Best Forsaken.” _Show Me the Numbers: Designing Tables and Graphs to Enlighten_, Analytics Press, 2012, pp. 271–85. -->
  - [Rosenberg, Daniel. “Against Infographics.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/against-infographics) _Art Journal_, vol. 74, no. 4, Oct. 2015, pp. 38–57.
  - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9am on the day of our class.**</a>
- Pre-Class Exercise:
  - Every year since 2012, the Digital Humanities community has recognized outstanding contributions through the [**Digital Humanities Awards** 🏆](http://dhawards.org/). On the award website, you'll find examples of data visualization that are not only stunning but also effective in conveying complex information. 
    1. **Explore** the [nominees from this year](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2023/voting/), or past years ([2012](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2012/nominations/), [2013](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2013/results/), [2014](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2014/voting/), [2015](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2015/voting/), [2016](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2016/voting/), [2017](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2017/voting/), [2018](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2018/voting/), [2019](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2019/voting/), [2020](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2020/voting/), [2021](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2021/voting/), [2022](http://dhawards.org/dhawards2022/voting/)). 
    2. **Choose a visualization** that resonates with you. 
    3. **Capture a screenshot** of this visualization and **add it to our session's [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CZ1AQo9jAT7HKHvDnXSrSQPeqznO-GNt1W1BkbcSfOc/edit?usp=sharing)** (limit yourself to one slide; for interactive visualizations, include a link to allow us to explore the visualization in detail during class). 
    4. While a formal presentation isn't required, prepare to **discuss** the following in class: What is being depicted? In what ways is it presented? Why do you believe this visualization is impactful? Think about its strengths and any potential weaknesses.

</div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary class="session-summary">
    <span class="arrow">↪</span>
    <span class="date-label">Apr 4</span>
    <span class="label label-red">Lab</span>
    <span class="session-title">GIS</span>
  </summary>
  <div markdown="1">
  - Slides (_coming soon_)
  - Pre-Class Reflection:
    - [Monmonier, Mark S. “Chapter 11. Data Maps: A Thicket of Thorny Choices.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/monmonier_2018_chapter-11) _How to Lie with Maps_, Third edition, The University of Chicago Press, 2018, pp. 153–78.
    - [Glasze, Georg. “Language(s), Discourse(s), Space(s) – and Their Transformations in the Digital Age: Research Approaches from Cultural and Social Geography.”](https://app.perusall.com/courses/introdh24/glasze_2024_language-s-discourse-s-space-s-and-their-transformations-in-the-digital) _Geographical Research in the Digital Humanities_, edited by Finn Dammann and Dominik Kremer, Bielefeld University Press, 2024, pp. 45–62.
    - **Post your reflection in the** <a href="https://introtodh--spring2024.slack.com/archives/C06F1KS1ULT" style="color: #ee6374;">**#reflections** </a>**channel on Slack** <a style="color: #ee6374;">**before 9am on the day of our class.**</a>

  </div>
</details>
