# Reflections

- Vee
- Schmidt

## Pia Bhatia
  3:18 PM
The assigned readings left me with many questions about the nature of coding languages as compared to ‘human’ languages. When discussing coding literacy, I was wondering if the languages in question have complex interrelated roots and mutate constantly to such an extent that literacy is hard to define. I imagine gaining literacy skills as achieving a higher level in a linear fashion. The 2017 Vee piece provided some preliminary information with which I may be able to construct a response: they discuss the functioning of “digital literacies” as a “complex ecology,” which is illustrative language that serves to elucidate its complexity.
My second question was formed around the 2016 Schmidt reading: I wanted to know if it is possible to run algorithmic analyses of literary texts without turning their features into taxonomies/binaries etc. Is there a way to place parameters on the function without reducing it to a ‘type’? What could this look like?

## Raphaela Gold
  11:34 AM
I was really interested in the questions this Thursday’s readings raised about the ubiquity of coding and algorithmic computer programming in today’s society and whether or not it is important for everyone to be familiar with these digital methods. Schmidt’s exploration of algorithms allowed me to better understand the way in which data analysis can be simultaneously scholarly and technical, often missing nuance but still pointing to important connections we otherwise might not have seen. Stephen Ramsay’s discussion of “algorithmic criticism,” or the process of using algorithmic transformations to open text for new ways of reading, even when a transformation might be meaningless, was really fascinating. Schmidt proposed the idea of a circular plot as more than a falsification, but rather a new way of thinking about plots and narratives, explaining that these new perspectives can highlight, “the gap between the beginning and end as a central feature of the novel,” and in doing so, “challenge us to think of the time that plots occupy as something other than straightforwardly linear.”

While I do think that challenging our assumptions about chronology and narrative is important, I question the notion that we need algorithms in order to see the circular plots or conceptualize an unwritten concept before/after the space of a novel. Shouldn’t the power of human imagination suffice? I found myself wondering what exactly these transformations can contribute, if they are often false and can offer the same theoretical expansions that a human brain could. On the other hand, perhaps I’m being too skeptical of what a potentially useful technology could do for our understanding using a simple transformation.

As for the question of coding literacy, I found it to be a really interesting exploration of the language we use surrounding coding and acquiring language in general. If coding is truly a language, and a universal one at that, then not knowing how to code would indeed render someone “illiterate” as Vee describes it. But because of the negative connotations that society has bestowed upon the notion of illiteracy and the history of governments capitalizing people’s illiteracy in order to exclude them from representation, calling not knowing how to code a form of illiteracy would then associate it with the same negative stigma. This raises the important question: should all “educated” people these days know how to code, just as they are expected to be financially and linguistically literate? Is it really a form of illiteracy if someone doesn’t know how to code or never had the opportunity to learn, or is it the same as lacking any other particular skill? These were the questions I was left pondering, and I look forward to discussing them.

## Anya Kalogerakos
  11:38 AM
I appreciated the Schmidt article, as I felt it did a good job of describing the difference between understanding the algorithm itself and understanding how the algorithm “transforms” data in a broader sense. The one question I had with this article was the utility of the Fourier transform as an example for this article. For one, it felt hard to follow (even from someone who has taken signal transformation classes). Secondly, it was difficult to understand the utility of using the Fourier transform on humanistic data, it really did not make sense to me as to what this would illuminate about a dataset (though maybe the fact that it didn’t was the point). I found the Vee article interesting as well, though I felt more onboard in the beginning of the article than the latter. I agree that coding literacy is becoming a new form of literacy (with all the weight that comes with that term). However, I think of coding literacy as “computational thinking” as opposed to the actual ability to read and write code. While I think it is vitally important for all to understand “computational thinking” as algorithms become more central to our lives, I do not think that the ability to read code is actually necessary (at least in the same way reading and writing text is necessary). 99% of code we interact with on the day to day (even for developers) is code that we never actually see in its raw and legible form. We simply act within the user interface, which does not require coding literacy. I would argue that it instead requires “computational thinking,” which Vee seemed to distinguish from coding literacy in the second half of the article.


## Ethan Haque
  1:14 PM
I think I agree with the overall point of the Schmidt article, but I do not like it. I feel like he's trying to draw a distinction that isn't well defined, and that doesn't have much meaning. He claims digital humanists don't need to understand algorithms at all, but then goes on to describe they should understand the invariants, assumptions, and some of the inner workings of the same algorithms. I don't really see the relevant differences between an algorithm and a transformation in the way the author is drawing to draw the distinction. The study of algorithms is generally purely mathematical and is concerned with proving certain properties of the algorithm. If a transformation is what composes an algorithm, then trying to understand these individual transformations is like trying to understand an algorithm without all the rigorous proof-based bits, which is what most software engineers do anyways. I agree that digital humanists probably don't need to understand the study of algorithms because that's generally highly technical and is really mostly good for making new algorithms. However, I'd also extend this to about every other technical field as well. It's important to understand the tools you're using, when to use them, and what they're doing, but you don't need to know how to build them from scratch to use them correctly and with confidence. We don't need to go back to first principles to understand most technical things. If that's the intuition other people have as well I'm not sure what the author is adding to the conversation.


## Clay Glovier
  1:54 PM
I enjoyed reading Benjamin Schmidt and Annette Vee’s respective articles Do Digital Humanists Need to Understand Algorithms and Introduction: Computer Programming as Literacy. In Schmidt’s article, I was interested in his note that humanists do not need to fully understand all of the algorithms they use. I agree with this, as understanding how they work is generally sufficient unless one is trying to build a new algorithm or some other highly complex task that is probably not necessary for most. However, it is an important claim of his work and does not seem very controversial or groundbreaking. I preferred reading Vee’s article about coding literacy. While I think that all students should learn about the basic concept of code and how programs work, I do not think that they all need to learn how to actually code. This is especially true given the advent of low-code and no-code technologies that will make it easy for everyone to complete coding tasks. Understanding what is driving these technologies will be important, but really knowing the intricacies of the code that drives them is not. I think the use of the word literacy is useful for the goal of trying to get all schools to incorporate classes on basic coding concepts, as this word emphasizes the importance of knowing the basics of code for the public to live an informed life.


## Pippa LaMacchia
  4:04 PM
These readings were fascinating to read back-to-back. Annette Vee’s Computer Programming as Literacy was the most immediately striking because I think that it is so important to redefine the importance of programming skills as we move towards a technologically dependent society. Simultaneously, Vee’s article helped me to better understand the place of coding in our contemporary society because it is occasionally something that I feel threatened by (as my focus is usually a literary and historical one) but by reinterpreting programming as simply another element of literacy and education I feel more prepared to approach it. On the other side of this argument, though, I would like to discuss or emphasize the exclusivity of this stance. If programming becomes synonymous with “being literate” then it suddenly becomes a marker for education — and not everyone has the means or the opportunities to learn how to code. This reinforces class separations and stereotypes and should also be a part of educational equity conversations. Particularly during this transitory moment when not all schools provide computer science courses in the same way they develop reading and writing skills for young students (and I would like to push back against this article as well by asking whether or not these skills are essential yet).
On the other hand, Schmit’s article Do Digital Humanists need to Understand Algorithms seemed to be in slight opposition to Vee’s stance. It is interesting to explore the limitations of human understanding and what is required to be understood, but from a baseline (perhaps uneducated perspective) it still seems important to understand all of the processes one’s data goes through and why instead of simply the transformations that come afterwards. His argument seems to prioritize making assumptions and developing trust in the computational tools but this may be a less precise way to work. If researches have the capacity to understand exactly what their computational tools are doing to the data, doesn’t that add legitimacy to their research and findings? Simultaneously, I do believe that one can use these tools successfully without understanding the exact algorithm, but I am curious to push back against what Schmidt argues.


## Alison Fortenberry
  9:33 PM
I found the Schmidt reading really interesting, but I wasn’t totally convinced that humanists don’t need to understand algorithms. While I would agree that their outputs are the most important component for a digital humanities project, I wonder how well we can affirm the veracity of an algorithm that we don’t really understand. How could a humanist justify their methodology without at least a cursory understanding of how their algorithms work? My opinion could be skewed by my, admittedly, limited knowledge of how algorithms work, but I wouldn’t feel comfortable basing an argument around information taken from a methodology that I don’t understand.
The Vee article had an interesting premise, but I found the framing of the argument uncompelling. While I would agree that coding is valuable, I think his comparisons to literacy made coding seem less important by comparison. Coding can be helpful, but I think it’s objectively less helpful than being able to functionally read and write. Also, I wonder where he’s imagining this education to take place. I don’t want to argue we can’t teach more than one thing at a time, but I do think when 21% of the US adult population is functionally illiterate (https://nces.ed.gov/pubs2019/2019179/index.asp), and public schools do not have enough resources to change that, adding a new form of literacy seems misguided. Increasing regular literacy feels like a much bigger priority than teaching coding literacy. In an ideal world, there would be resources to pursue all of these literacies, but, under our current system, it just seems like a low priority. I do think that my perspective on this issue is framed by Vee’s usage of the word “literacy,” though, and I wonder if my perspective would be different had he framed this argument another way.


## Melissa Woo
  9:58 PM
I first learned how to code using MIT’s Scratch platform, dragging little blocks together again and again until the little cat walked across the screen and said “Hello World!”. Enrolling in the “Learn to Code” class at my elementary school made a big difference in my educational interests and, quite frankly, my academic path overall. I say this to perhaps frame my potential bias towards promoting accessibility to learning how to code. I do believe that everyone should have the opportunity to learn how to code, not only because so many things around us are computationally driven, but also because it changes the way you think, build solutions to problems, and approach unknowns. This being said, I’m not entirely convinced of the presence of digital literacy in the way that the Vee reading specifies, in the same comparison to the literacy that comes with reading and writing. What aspects of society are rendered completely inaccessible by an inability to code? With regard to Schmidt’s piece, “Do Digital Humanists Need to Understand Algorithms?” I agreed with the underlying concept of bringing accountability to the decisions that are made within computer algorithms and automated systems. There is a veneer of objectivity and complexity that comes with the involvement of any given machine learning or AI system, but I agree with Schmidt that there’s something essential to being able to understand, shape, and change the way that these systems work. This reminds me of the whole field of translational research and ML explainability that has the potential to make such a big difference in this field. But, understanding its importance and framing its significance for digital humanists can help promote its usage in common academic conversation and work.


## Talia Goldman
  10:29 PM
I was particularly interested in Lee’s introductory chapter to Coding Literacy. Like Melissa, this topic as a whole brought up memories of playing with the program Scratch in elementary school, and helped me contextualize and critique the widespread efforts to lay foundations for coding literacy. While I did not develop particular interest in coding, this type of computational thinking was, at least partially, deemed important in my elementary (and sometimes secondary) education. Part of me wonders to what extent coding literacy is an issue of being able to read/write/understand code, but also ensuring that future generations take up interest in it as a career path.
The main questions I kept coming back to when reading the article were ones of accessibility. I was glad when Lee writes that accessibility to coding literacy must be expanded, but I was not convinced that this sort of late mention of the issue in the paper satisfactorily addressed my questions. Relatively “easy” entry points available for learning to code do not necessarily mean that people will have access to or be able to use these entry points (online courses, YouTube videos, etc). And if the ability to code constitutes a new type of literacy (a fascinating argument with lots of merit), then there can be ways for these skills to create huge barriers to entering job markets that are not even too closely connected to the actual skill of programming.
I see the central connection between the Lee and Schmidt readings as being one of resisting complete blind trust in programming and DH tools. I think that to an extent, this is productive, especially in regards to understanding algorithms. So, like others, I take some issue with Schmidt’s argument that digital humanists don’t need to completely understand the tools they are working with as much as the transformations, but at the same time, the practicalities of learning about these algorithms in such depth may also be counterproductive to making the use of DH tools welcoming and accessible.


## Layla Williams
  12:22 AM
In a way, I feel that the two readings were almost providing two different perspectives on the same argument. While one spoke more specifically about the act of coding while the other spoke more directly about understanding the process that results from the code, they were still arguing for or against a specific relationship with coding and understanding it as a language. I am thinking particularly about how Schmidt blatantly claimed that digital humanists in short do not need to understand algorithms (instead they should understand the transformations that have taken place with them). In contrast, the Vee article advocated very strongly toward the importance of coding literacy and understanding exactly what was going into the programming that you would be working with. However, while the first article was aimed specifically at digital humanists, the Vee article was directed more broadly at the general public and building a case for why everyone should understand how to code. While I think each article had strong sides of their argument, I think I had more thoughts about the Vee article. I feel that, yes. As we become more autonomous in today’s society and more people are expected to be more multi-faceted (especially as employees), I can see why having coding literacy could be helpful. However, I think that this very general audience means that a lot of specific populations are overlooked in the advocacy for coding literacy. It assumes everyone has the resources that would allow them to.


## James Sowerby
  12:27 AM
I was taken back to my middle and high school days by reading Vee's introduction where, like Melissa and Talia, I also learned how to understand the logic of code from Scratch and other programs. I purposefully do not say I positively learned how to code, as I think that was not emblematic of real "coding literacy" as Vee introduces it and later struggled in other classes to translate it to real technical skills when given the opportunity to do so. Moreno than just coding literacy I've often felt as a student who concentrates in the humanities that I also do not have broader scientific literacy in the same way that STEM students are forced to be able to write essays. That the only required class at Princeton is a writing seminar, where an introduction to scholarly writing is standardized, whereas all scientific requirements are generalized over broad categories is very interesting. I feel that most STEM students are literate with respect to academic writing, but I do not have any real experience in scientific research or true scholarly discourse in that sense. Indeed, our HUM346 class is listed as a "quantitative and computational reasoning" class but may not have the technical skills that the average person might expect. In this sense, I feel very acutely the idea that Vee outlines—not having coding literacy sometimes feels like a moral failing or deficiency as the job market generally progresses to digital methods and analysis. This is even more so the case when the specific values taught in a humanities education are less quantifiable or tangible and more easily classifiable as "soft skills" of strong reasoning and argumentation. I would tend to agree with Schmidt, however, and say that this course has shown me that I can understand and use computation without knowing how the exact algorithms work. I know that Prof. Haverals does a lot of work to make sure our lab examples work very neatly for us uninitiated users and so it might not be so simple as it seems sometimes, but the general sentiment does still stand for me.


## Helen Gao
  3:40 AM
In “Do Digital Humanists Need to Understand Algorithms?”, I found it helpful to consider the differences between algorithms and transformations, and it was interesting to learn about transformations in the context of music rather than pure math. I also appreciated that the article walked us through the many limitations of a specific method, while still addressing its potential for productive analysis. To me, it seemed like the article boiled down to a question of “how it works” vs “what it does”, and I would agree that “what it does” is more important for humanists. “Computer Programming as Literacy” was an interesting enough read, but I found myself disagreeing with some of the important points. For example, while I do think that coding literacy is important, I also feel like the article was overstating its importance to daily life. Sure, it could be helpful in some situations, but I don’t think it’s nearly as important as natural language literacy (honestly, I doubt it should be, because that would indicate an uncomfortably heavy reliance on digital technologies). Additionally, while the article recognized that the idea of literacy is bound to some ideal of moral goodness, I don’t think it gave the issue enough attention before continuing to push for coding literacy, considering how unequal technological access is (not just in the United States, but across the world).


## Colin Brown
  10:25 AM
I think "Do Digital Humanists Need to Understand Algorithms?" not only has a very strong case for understanding the underlying algorithms that humanists use, but I think it also applies outside of DH. For instance, I think this is why many Princeton technical courses, including computer science and engineering ones, side on being more theoretical so that students get an understanding of why certain equations and formulas exists rather than just learning to plug in values or call coding functions. This is also important so that humanists can be more critical reviewers of each others' work. Schmidt does a good job of illustrating why that still is vital.
In "Coding Literacy", Vee touches on how the standard for achieving coding literacy has evolved over time; literacy originally meant being able to code computer mainframes, where now it leans closer to just knowing some fundamental Python. However, I wonder if we're trending back in the other direction, especially with the rise of ML and AI. As these tools take over more and more tasks that humans do, I think the disparity will grow between those that are experts in these areas and those who are not. Also, as coding becomes more engrained in the educational curriculum of more schools, people will almost be expected to know a baseline set of coding skills; having none will the outlier rather than the expectation. It will be interesting to see how this evolution will continue to take place. (edited) 

## Yaashree Himatsingka
  5:24 AM (LATE)
Week 11.2 Response: I find Schmidt’s argument – that a deep understanding of algorithms isn’t necessary for digital humanists – intriguing because it seems to place more importance on scholarly outcomes than familiarity with the inner workings of digital tools. By alleviating the barrier of technical expertise, this could potentially open up digital humanities research to traditional humanists who feel intimidated by computational methods.
But at the same time, simplifying the role of technology in humanities overlooks the critical and considered understanding that comes from a deeper engagement with these tools. I think that understanding algorithmic processes, for example would allow for a more informed interpretation of data transformations.
On the other hand, Vee propositions coding as a critical form of literacy in today’s society. Admittedly, this makes me a bit anxious. The comparison of coding literacy to traditional literacy is interesting because it shows us how our definitions of knowledge and competence have evolved in the digital age. But this argument also raises concerns about inclusivity and accessibility, which Vee does note, because labeling those without coding skills as “illiterate” could perpetuate new socioeconomic divides – especially because it’s unlikely that educational systems will be able to provide universal access to these skills.
If we really are advancing towards a future where coding might be as essential as reading and writing, I think it’ll be important to frame discussions on digital literacy in terms of educational equity so that they don’t exacerbate existing digital divides.

