# Reflections on Data Visualization

- McCandles
- Rettberg
- Rosenberg

## Raphaela Gold
  8:36 PM
I really enjoyed reading about data visualization and the questions it raises about the “aesthetic dimensions of data representation,” as Daniel Rosenberg put it in “Against Infographics.” Rosenberg’s research raised questions about the validity of infographics and the importance of detailed, nuanced visual representations if a researcher decides to go that route. Using the maps of Rome as an example, Rosenberg demonstrated how detailed, thoughtful visualizations allow us to make keen observations. For example, it was interesting to notice how infrastructure changed over time, and which structures were positioned near one another – for example, the oil refineries and arms manufacturers. I really appreciated being able to see the maps of Rome embedded within the article for reference, as well as Rosenberg’s choice to bring his own family history into his article. This choice imbued his work with a sense of narrative and purpose which made the entire study more accessible and compelling, at least to me.
As for Rettberg’s “Ways of knowing with data,” I was really intrigued by her metaphor of transferring knees and forks. She made the distinction between gleaning knowledge and expressing it. Whether you have the forks and knives in the first place is one thing. How you package those forks and knives once you have them opens a whole knew set of questions which I’m eager to explore. For example, I thought it was an interesting observation that 2D representation causes us to interpret data and image as more separate from ourselves. Why is that, and is there a way to make it feel more present? I also thought Rettberg’s analysis of the senses was really interesting. She brought in other senses besides just sight, like touch and sound. What would it be like if data was presented as a full sensory experience? Would that allow us to better portray narrative?
Overall, I am eager to talk more about these questions and the general topic of portraying narrative through data visualization.


## Alison Fortenberry
  4:28 PM
Data visualizations are a helpful tool for clarifying and interacting with big concepts in a digestible way. However, the simplicity often required for clarity asks us to trust its creators a lot. In the TED Talk, we have to trust that McCandless is not misrepresenting scale or presenting absolute representations to obscure relative representations. Something that I appreciated about the unclear representations that were discussed in the “Against Infographics” readings is that they encouraged the reader to interact critically not only with the representation itself but also with the process of creating it and all of the choices its author made. Still, the complex visualizations there made it a lot harder to parse through the information presented. I wonder if there is some way to create a simple visual representation that also encourages critical engagement with the author; something easily comprehensible, but that still leaves you thinking about the methodology used to construct it. Are simple visual representations and critical engagement with their creation mutually exclusive? I’m not really sure what this could look like realistically, so it seems that the burden to question and challenge simple visual representations lies in the hands of the reader. Asking questions about how phenomena are identified and presented has to be a step in interacting with visual representations to make sure that we are not just repeating someone’s biased views. Responsibility also lies in the hands of those creating visual representations to either check their biases and present things contextually, or to get rid of simple infographics and encourage critical engagement with their representations.


## Pia Bhatia
  11:06 AM
I was very persuaded by McCandless’s TED talk on the beauty–and sometimes necessity–for data visualizations. I have often found myself confused by the cyclicality of news I read. To see patterns of news stories this way was powerful, as was looking at visualizations that addressed the scale of various events. Something I have been thinking about a lot lately is how we are overdependent on eyesight as a sense, and I felt a sense of conflict in seeing a ‘visual’ solution to this issue.
That said, it was equally fascinating to have this idea complicated by Against Infographics. The discussion of Jan Kocken’s Depictions of Berlin was really emblematic of circumstances in which being ‘inefficient’ may serve the data/what it is portraying in a more effective way. I like that there is an opacity to his works, and on some level, I believe that this addresses the same issue of ‘data glut’ that the TED talk raised. By merely witnessing layers upon layers of data, one is forced to reckon with its meaning and attachment to lived experience. I think there are analogous ideas here about art and data or art and content—the process of deciphering a work that was not created to be easily understood is a powerful one.


## Andrew Huo
  3:19 PM
As a visual thinker, I am interested in data visualization and how visual representation of information can affect the way we view things and their patterns/relationships. David McCandless’ Ted Talk was a great introduction to this sort of way of thinking and his clear way of speaking and fascinating connections drew me in. I agree that different ways data are presented can illustrate new patterns and correlations that would be hard to see otherwise. Rettberg’s “Ways of Knowing with Data Visualizations” and Rosenberg’s “Against Infographics” were very interesting extensions of the history of data visualization and what it can offer in the realm of art. Rettberg made me think about the psychological effects of different types of visual interfaces. For instance, the further away a representation of an object is (two dimensions of a fork instead of a tangible one) creates distance between the observer and the information. I am curious how different types of interfaces and representations affect or skew the interpretation of the information. If something is more aesthetically pleasing? Or simplified? Bolder colors? Or if something appears more formalized and legitimate does the observer trust the information on a more subliminal level? I was also fascinated by the 19th-century shift into emphasizing the average instead of the ‘unachievable and how that shift gradually came to be in relationship with how the representation of data shifted.


## James Sowerby
  5:02 PM
Data visualization is a very cool topic, and I am quite interested in its use as a new method of argument, reasoning, or critique—rather than just the exposition of previously researched data. As such, I was taken by Rosenberg's article and the ending differentiation between the rules that govern graphical elegance versus those of graphical critique. While the content of his examples was also quite compelling (and sent me on several significant Wikipedia rabbit holes to dive more into history around them) this explanation was perhaps the most clear and the most illuminating. Indeed, it seemed to correspond with the other sources for this week as well. The idea that graphics can "reveal epistemological differences produced by changes of scale" and  spur self-reflection on the "purposes and implications of data representations" was exactly what the Ted Talk discussed and what Rettburg elucidated. The bell curve of heights and the establishment of a paradigmatic "average" Belgian by Quetelet shows how the representation corresponds to an implicit argument: those on the outskirts of the majority are stigmatized through visualization and rhetoric at the same time. In the Ted Talk, McCandless had the example of the Left vs. Right political views, which he said his own personal motivation was to highlight the Left side. He didn't, of course, and this is an example of the "graphical elegance" rule against obscuring what the data have to say, but it's also a reflection on the form and argument of the specific method, which is more in line with critique


## Anya Kalogerakos
  7:30 PM
I enjoyed the readings and the TED talk on data visualization, although the one thing that I feel the TED talk did not address was the ability to misinterpret visual representations of data. While I agree that data visualization can simplify a dataset into something more easily understandable and shareable, I do think that there still exists a bit of a knowledge barrier that isn’t addressed with data visualization. For instance, to appropriately understand a data visualization, you have to understand the statistics used in it and what each component of the visualization means in the right context. One way to lessen this barrier, which was mentioned, was the visualization of relative facts (such as U.S. military spending vs GDP). The Walker reading provided a good philosophical discussion to complement the TED talk, and one notion that stuck with me from the reading was the importance of causality in a world of correlation collection. The idea that it doesn't really matter why an event happened, as long as we know what things are correlated with that event happening is a very interesting concept–and one that feels very against ideas of human exploration and curiosity. However, I could see this being the way we chose to use data to frame and explain our world, which makes me a little uneasy. The Rosenberg reading was a nice push-back against all of the previous ideas, in that there is also some value in a lack of simplification, or rather, the visualization of complication. I think this approach, while perhaps limited in its applicability, is a nice way of not having to make any assumptions about the data behind the visual, and also lowers the barrier for visualization interpretation–each viewer can notice different details and come to their own conclusions.


## Melissa Woo
  12:08 PM
It was interesting to see how these readings addressed and approached data visualization given that it is such a broad topic and there are so many facets to consider and analyze. I thought it was a good overview and consideration of how data visualization has changed the nature of displaying and analyzing different types of data – the Berlin map example was a particularly interesting example because it was cool to see a different form of data visualization; I think that a lot of the time, when we think about data visualization, bar graphs and the such come to mind, but thinking of it as “data of data” really broadens the scope.
I also found myself reflecting on the process of data visualization itself; in the same way that cleaning data requires so many choices that have impacts on the findings that can be drawn, it seems that choosing how to visualize data can really change the conclusions of the analysis. Is there a way that data visualization should be more transparent and replicable in the same way that we are increasingly having datasheets for datasets and other reproducibility/clarity tools? It seems just as important to understand how the data visualization is made as it is to consider the data visualization, especially given the appearance of objectivity of data and the evidence-based nature of gathered facts and statistics.


## Pippa LaMacchia
  2:38 PM
David McCandless’s TED talk and the two readings this week were incredibly illuminating because I had been thinking about data visualization after a reading a few weeks ago. I had had some larger questions about data organization and how information has the potential to be manipulated or represented differently in these simplified visualizations. The TED talk was an insightful introduction to the potential of data visualization and its value, which was important to me because I approach this subject with so much cynicism. The Rettberg article posed several questions for me — ideas like “Can different visualizations of the same data skew conclusions differently?” or “Can visualizations be dangerous because they present information subjectively in a way that might be objective?” For the most part I was also struck by the end of the article and thinking about the connection between emotional knowledge and objective interpretation. The Rosenberg article was also striking because of those maps — I loved being able to understand these articles in the context of socio-political artwork and a more specific emotional thread.


## Yaashree Himatsingka
  3:20 AM
The TED talk describes how we can visualize information to tell stories – the striking juxtapositions of OPEC’s revenue alongside their miniscule climate change fund; the money poured into wars in Iraq and Afghanistan versus charitable donations by Americans. McCandless makes a case for patterns that can “only be seen” when visualized. He describes data as a “fertile, creative” medium, and visualizations like “flowers blooming” from this medium – data visualizations, which “compress” vast knowledge and “design” complex information, can come as a relief in an information-ridden world. However, the fact that data visualizations can be consumed so easily, unconsciously even, makes consumers more vulnerable to their distortions. Echoing a critical perspective, Rosenberg scrutinizes the assumed objectivity and simplicity of infographics. He warns that while infographics strive to demystify complex data, they risk oversimplifying, distorting, or even obscuring the truth. Rosenberg is particularly wary of the aestheticization of data within infographics, and how this undermines a deep understanding of the presented data. Similarly, I appreciated Rettberg’s emphasis on the interpretive flexibility of data – the way data is collected, organized, and presented can seriously influence the inferences we draw. The perceived objectivity of data masks the subjective decisions that go into creating data visualizations, suggesting that what hold as empirical truth is in fact colored by human interpretation. (edited) 


## Clay Glovier
  1:09 PM
I really enjoyed the content for Tuesday’s class. Watching McCandless’ talk on data visualization, it was interesting to see how more abstract data points such as how much the U.S. government spends on its military each year can be put in context to provide a clear image showing the U.S. taxpayer how sizable this number really is. I also enjoyed reading Rettberg Walker and Rosenberg’s articles, Ways of Knowing with Data Visualization’s, and Against infographics. While data visualization has the important ability to show people what certain statistics really mean by providing essential context, there is also the danger of data being misrepresented. It is really easy for creators of infographics to leave out certain metrics that change how the entire data set is interpreted, for example leaving out the mean and only showing the median when perhaps the mean is more impactful or changes the story. Going forward, I think it is essential that the public becomes educated in the ways of data visualization to be able to understand when the full story is being told. This is a very important method of showing data and its impact should not be underestimated. Rather than shun its adoption in the media, data visualization techniques should be embraced and data scientists hired at newspapers to best present the reality of complex phenomena.


## Colin Brown
  9:42 PM
First, I aligned a lot with McCandless’ view on data, using it as a rich source of uncovered knowledge to parse through. I enjoy reading articles or seeing stories where researchers take a body of data that we thought had been pretty well studied and yet still uncover new insights that challenge previous understandings or reveal new knowledge that can be studied further.
More broadly, we’re all aware of how data is subject to so many factors and can be skewed in so many ways. Rettburg seemed to highlight how this is even exaggerated in data visualizations, which make a lot of sense because you can easily alter how things visually appear in relation to each other. Although it’s a very different and far less DH-related subject, Rettburg’s writing reminded me of a similarly interesting story I’ve read a few times. An ESPN fantasy football writer puts out an annual piece where he visualizes the stats for two different unnamed players. Based on what he writes, one of them appears to be absolutely amazing while the other seems far worse. Then, he goes on to reveal that the “amazing” player is a backup player and the “terrible” one is the NFL’s reigning league MVP. It’s a great story of how data and infographics can be selectively manipulated to tell any story you want, and shows how this trend is everywhere from DH to sports.


## Talia Goldman
  10:16 PM
Rettberg’s “Ways of Knowing with Data Visualizations” provided fascinating background on the history of data visualization, similar to the history of datasets we read about earlier in the semester. I found the physical space vs. photograph vs. bar graph idea particularly interesting, because it made me consider how “data visualization” is in much of the visual culture we engage with. For example, a photograph of the ingredients for a recipe on social media could be considered data visualization, because, as in the fork example, it makes clear the individual components of a larger category. If there was then a pie chart about the ingredients of this recipe, the information would be further distilled into a 2D depiction. Of course, more scholarly data visualizations carry far more complexities, but the Rettberg article shows how intertwined the “desire for numbers,” organization, data visualization, and everyday life can be,
The Rosenberg article pulls on similar themes at the start by thinking about maps, art, and infographics. I was interested in his consideration of the distinctions between data art (complexity) and data visualization (clarity). While I had been considering photography and art as having commonalities with data visualization, Rosenberg’s article reminded me of the importance of separating aesthetic/design with data visualization for more critical interaction with infographics and data visualization.
The TED Talk “The Beauty of Data Visualization” emphasized how data visualization can change mindsets and perspectives. I thought perhaps McCandless was a bit overoptimistic, especially with his claim that data visualization more easily lets us consider viewpoints that are different than our own, since data visualization can sometimes hold bias, as mentioned in the Rettberg reading. Nonetheless, I agree that in a visual world, the potential of data visualization is really quite exciting.


## Helen Gao
  12:15 AM
I really liked the TED talk – the idea of data as soil was a productive analogy, and the talk highlighted the different ways in which people and organizations tend to interact with data. I thought it was interesting how McCandless pointed out that being exposed to so much visual information has given us a sort of dormant design literacy – it seems like the range of our senses have biased us towards visual information, which then led to more visual information being created, which continues to bias us. I also liked how he described the relationship between visualizations and data: visualizations as a way of giving life to data. McCandless also mentioned the importance of paying attention to how data is presented (using the examples with relative vs. absolute amounts), which showed how data can sometimes seem misleading, even though we may think of it as factual. “Ways of Knowing with Data Visualizations” reiterated similar points about the points about perception of objectivity. The article also described some issues with data visualization that I hadn’t previously considered, specifically how visualizations privilege the average and prioritize correlation over causation. In the context of this discussion about objectivity, these biases can be dangerous. The idea of phantasmagrams was also especially interesting, and emphasized the impact of data (and visualizations). “Against Infographics” raised some general questions about the purpose of infographics, and while I still think that complexity is better addressed by text (because I think it’s easier to understand what these complexities are by reading about them rather than looking at visual representations like the ones in the article, which seemed cluttered), these ideas were interesting to think about.


## Layla Williams
  1:21 AM
Data visualization is appealing to me as someone who tends to be a visual learner. However, I disagreed with Walker Rettberg’s citing of the scholar who believed that causation is not necessary when it comes to data. They argue that as long as we see the trends in the patterns, we can create the tools to diagnose and treat them. Despite this, I believe that just because something is visualized that does not necessarily mean we will be able to pinpoint how to solve the circumstances that allowed that visualization to take place. I see data visualization as a way to understand the relationship between data sets and use that as the launching points for any questions that you have rather than the answers to the questions themselves. I think that if you are using visualization in order to get a particular message across, you need to have some kind of accompanying key. If you do not, your data visualization might get weaponized, such as what was discussed in Rosenberg’s article about the dangers of what an overcomplicated visualization could cause. Finally, I think the TED talk was helpful in actually demonstrating the power of data visualization based on the way humor was woven throughout. Before you even knew what the data should be representing, the audience’s laughter demonstrated that the audience was able to quickly understand what the data was showing before the speaker got a chance to explain.


## Emanuelle Sippy
  1:32 AM
I appreciated both these articles and how they were in conversation thematically despite how different they were. One thing that seemed to emerge as a thread between the two pieces was what Rettberg articulated at the end of her article: “Affect and emotion can offer us kinds of knowledge that are not directly accessible through purely rational analysis” (Rettberg 45). This also seems to synthesize, in large part, what Rosenberg finds so compelling about Kocken’s work both on a personal and intellectual level, which in and of itself is indicative of their point. He writes: “In the representation of history, clarity often demands simplification. But historical understanding also demands confrontation with complexity, ambiguity, and a multiplicity of perspectives (Rosenberg 52). Kocken’s work powerfully leverages its visual nature to produce this layering and complicating effect, illustrating not only change over time but also imbricated realities of singular historical moments. I was stuck by how this project sits at the intersection of art and data visualization. In Rosenberg’s words: “One may view Kocken’s Depictions as examples of data art” (Rosenberg 52). I am curious to explore how other artists or interdisciplinary scholars might be working at this intersection as it seems very valuable and mutually enriching to across disciplines.