# Reflections on markup languages

## James Sowerby
  11:08 PM
The DSC article on TEI was very interesting because it made me think more about my own annotation practices more. It's not something I usually do, since I almost exclusively work with print materials and write in margins with pens, but reading Beshero-Bondar's article once again referenced the question of accessibility: **how do we encode our own thoughts such that others can read them later and reproduce our train of thought or research?** I, for one, would expect very few people to be able to follow my train of thought in annotations. I tend to write in cursive, which is itself a form of encryption these days, and often make allusions to hyper specific references from my own life or from other classes. Sometimes I can't even remember the point I was trying to make when I go back. But I remain convinced, sort of along the DSC article's methodology, that it is incredible important to mark your thinking at the time to track changes and understand your research narrative. I have never used XML or any of these tools, but I clearly see how complicated it is to standardize methods. That also makes sense in the context of the authors' comment on **funding**—were they to be funded by grants, they would have to use XML to encode things as a matter of transmission and proof of work. As a side note, I thought it was really cool to see the emails reproduced in the article that show us the evolution of Quinn's work as they are trying to figure it out. Very cool for a peek into the process. Lastly, I thought the Shakespeare and Company article was super interesting because I'm always curious about how bookstores and libraries work/have changed over time. It also is relevant to a project I did last year with the **Nassau Literary Review** that wanted to highlight underrepresented authors in their archives. It was a hard thing to do, since to ascertain demographic markers we really could only go off of names or yearbook photos, which is, at best, an unreliable method, so I appreciate the difficulty of their project.



## Clay Glovier
  2:57 PM
I enjoyed reading Dombrowski et al, and Budak’s works. It was interesting to learn about how digital humanists are working to gain the ability to mark up texts. It seems challenging to teach machines not only which literary devices and features of books are worth highlighting, while also instructing algorithms not to highlight too much of texts. However, as someone who does not usually highlight or annotate texts I am reading, it would be useful if a program could do this for me and I had the ability to easily search for different facets of a book instead of spending significant amounts of time looking for examples of each literary device.

In reading the article about gender in the literary world, I was intrigued by some of the questions the author asked, which were enabled by technologies tracking the gender of users of libraries. Being able to answer questions regarding which types of books men and women are more likely to read and if female readers are more likely to read books authored by other women are certainly interesting questions, and are currently very difficult to answer. Having a software that could answer these questions would be powerful, and would open the field of gender studies to even more avenues of research than already being pursued.


## Anya Kalogerakos
  6:58 PM
I enjoyed the **change in tone in this section of reading** (less academic, more personable). It was also interesting to hear about the digitization of a different type of medium–namely, graphic novels. I was surprised to read about how much intensive manual labor is currently required to properly text-encode a graphic novel. Similarly, I was impressed to hear about how large of a community was involved in this effort and regularly contributed to a set of standards (TEI). However, it does seem like it would be difficult to get involved in this community, as a **high level of prerequisite knowledge seems to be required, such as XML coding, IDE platform knowledge**, etc. That being said, the work that is able to be done in these sorts of projects, such as the Shakespeare and Company project, is very unique. I am very fascinated with the idea of “personography” and the practice of digitizing a person through their textual representation. I think this comes with a lot of challenges (which the DSC group mentioned), especially in the case that we are now representing data not just on objects, but on people, their personalities, and their backgrounds. It seems that one would have to be extra mindful in this practice to properly characterize the person they are recording.


## Alison Fortenberry
  11:01 PM
The overall impression I got from the Data-Sitters Club is that TEI and XML have a lot of rules and structures to learn up front, but taking the time to learn them can make research in the humanities a lot easier and faster, accounting for variables more smoothly and quickly than an individual person could. I may have missed the explanation in the article, but something that puzzled me a lot was the mention of Queer TEI and Black TEI at the end. I can see how different manifestations of gender, sexuality, and race could vary from the default norms of TEI, but that kind of diversity does not seem abnormally difficult to integrate into standard TEI. Later with the discussion of Anglophone/ Western European texts being at the core of TEI’s design, I find it easier to understand why Japanese TEI could be a lot more difficult to express, as it is a totally different language and language structure. That’s not to say it shouldn’t be worked into TEI, rather that the language barriers there help me understand the disparity for Japanese users of TEI in a way that I don’t for queer and black users. The Shakespeare and Co. article shows how these sorts of changes can be made gradually to have a broader, more inclusive understanding of expressions like gender even when working with a complicated dataset and a less fluid methodology.


## Talia Goldman
  10:16 AM
In both the Data-Sitters Club article and Representing Gender in the Shakespeare and Company Project, the discussion of biases in personography was interesting to me following our conversations about biases in datasets and DH projects. Previously, I had been thinking about bias in regards to what data gets collected or digitized or how the data is used, but the example of assigning men “1” and women “2” with TEI for the Shakespeare project demonstrates that the details of the actual organization/marking process carries these biases as well. I also thought that the idea TEI “forces you to engage with the text” (Data-Sitters Club) was interesting–in engaging with text, the projects become more personal, but also makes it necessary to reconcile questions about gender, race, and sexuality with TEI and DH technology. Perhaps this engagement with text and critical approaches to issues with TEI is exactly what makes digital humanities a cross-disciplinary field, which deals with humanistic inquiry, emerging technology, and pressing social issues. The explanation of the TEI as a community at the end of the Data-Sitters article emphasizes **the people behind DH**, which I thought was especially important in thinking about why humanists (and students engaging in digital research materials in general) should receive background on DH tools to understand that digitization is **not magic, but a laborious,** question-filled, and personal process.


## Raphaela Gold
  10:22 AM
To begin with, I really appreciated Lee and Quinn’s conversational writing style in their piece about TEI and its potential use with regards to graphic novels. I found their writing style very engaging, and it felt as though they were trying to make digital humanities feel approachable and exciting to the reader, as opposed to some other authors we’ve read which have come across as more purely academic and informative. I also appreciated the insertion of images from graphic novels like the Babysitters Club throughout the piece. **Lee and Quinn seemed like they were having genuine fun with their research**, which made the research automatically exciting to the reader.

Their work really furthered my understanding of what TEI can do. It allows us to answer the questions we have about literature, but it also allows us to quantitatively track our answers to these questions, contributing to the quality of the answers. The authors also recognized that HML is “easy to problematize” because it represents text as a hierarchical tree of things. This sentiment is a recurring theme in our reading so far. While it is easy to problematize any technology (OCR, HTR, TEI, XML etc.) due to that technology’s particular limitations, they can still be valuable despite their constraints. These authors posit that if one acknowledges the issues a tool poses and comes to terms with these problems, than the user can move on and take advantage of what the technology does have to offer. The hierarchy imposed by TEI can be meaningful, but only if you structure it in an intentional way which ensures that it will have meaning in the real world, and not just in the computer program.

While I definitely understand what Lee is trying to accomplish here, I’m **still not entirely convinced that encoding a graphic novel is a practical or advisable practice**. Reading that Mary Anne “rushes in a panic to get to the door and knocks down a chair…” for example is certainly not the same as seeing the action play out through an image before your eyes. However, I did think Lee and Quinn made very valuable contributions to the scholarly conversation, especially with regards to their referencing queer and Black TEI, which I would have loved to read more about.

As for the Nick Budak reading, I found their approach to discovering answers to their questions about the correlation between Shakespeare and Co members and gender demographics facscinating. I really appreciated how they used first person accounts and secondary sources in order to revise the data, and how they invited people to join them in their research toward the end of the piece, making it feel more open and accessible to the general public.


## Andrew Huo
  2:29 PM
I found the DSC #5: The DSC and the Impossible TEI Quandaries” article fascinating in its step-by-step process of using TEI for comic books. The playful tone and style hooked me in, from the colloquial language to the visuals, representation of data, and light colors. I was amazed by the complexities of TEI or CBML and the thoroughness of the process. For example, the fact that there would need to be multiple drafts for each collection of markups or the fact that “the more things you mark up, the more kinds of questions you can answer – and the longer it takes to prepare your text to the point where you can begin your analysis.” It all seems a little messy, and I am curious why there is not some sort of standardization for digital markups yet. Another point I found interesting was what Quinn said about TEI being personal – that there is a level of detailed engagement where there can be no psychological distance between you and the text. Thus, it can be difficult if you have issues with the text. My overall lasting thought is what is the point of using TEI/CBML for comic books instead of analyzing the image itself. Quinn even says in the conclusion, “I have to believe that all the time I spent doing that markup wasn’t for nothing… It just might not be for something today.” How does representing images in text mark up help with visual-based questions rather than image analysis.


## Pia Bhatia
  3:34 PM
Something I think was interesting about the Representing Gender in the Shakespeare and Company project was the idea that the data will continually need to be updated, only because our language surrounding gender and even how we identify often changes over time. There was also an analogy between pronouns and gendered-affixes (such as Mme.) and numerical representations that I found so fascinating — the data repository appears to be building its own efficiencies within a language that is similar to ours. I also thoroughly enjoyed the DSC #5: The DSC and the Impossible TEI Quandaries piece because it demystified TEI in a way that I found a lot more accessible than before. Thus far, a lot of our readings have integrated concerns about the technology being exclusionary to certain groups, and **this was a refreshing vision of a set of “guidelines” that are amenable to be changed by any given social group, despite the ways in which marking this up would require a lot of manual work.** I wonder how these projects would interact with each other given that they will differ so greatly.


## Melissa Woo
  5:37 PM
Upon reflection of the works by Beshero-Bondar et al. and Budak from a digital humanist perspective, a profound interplay between challenges and opportunities in the digital scholarship domain emerges. The intricate examination of TEI encoding complexities in Beshero-Bondar et al.'s article underscores the nuanced balance required to harmonize precision and interpretation during the digitization of texts. This juxtaposition between the pursuit of accuracy through TEI encoding and the inherent semantic fluidity within literary works raises fundamental inquiries into the strategies employed by digital projects to navigate these intricacies, prompting a deeper contemplation on the essence of textual representation within a digital framework.

Furthermore, Budak's scrutiny of gender representation within the Shakespeare and Company Project provides a nuanced exploration into the complexities surrounding gender annotation in digital archives. By dissecting specific instances within the project, such as the portrayal of gender in historical texts, Budak illuminates how digital tools can shape our comprehension of gender roles in literature, instigating critical reflections on the influence of digital platforms on our perceptions of gender identities and roles. This necessitates digital humanists to not only deliberate on the implications of their annotations on historical fidelity but also on how these annotations mold contemporary interpretations, underscoring the imperative for a discerning and critical approach to representation within digital humanities research.
I find that these scholarly works construct a compelling narrative that raises the question of how to best navigate the intricate interplay between technology, literature, and culture with a focus on interpretation, representation, and the evolving landscape of digital scholarship.


## Colin Brown
  5:56 PM
The prominent thread in both readings for this class is that the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) is highly fluid and developer-dependent. In the script from the Data-Sitters club, Quinn talks about how personal TEI can be when it is coded; you can choose to encode certain snippets of the image or choose how to format some of the different paragraphs and sections. Then, Budak highlights how the descriptors that one uses in a TEI can vastly impact the implicit meanings conveyed. While certainly opening the door for many possibilities, this struck me as slightly concerning (in this case, the notation for each gender). If these TEI packages are used for computationally analyzing certain trends or patterns in books, then the results that the computer finds will be solely reflective of the choices that the user makes during the TEI development process; in other words, one could theoretically “craft” certain computational findings by choosing a specific approach to the TEI.

On a separate note, one thing I wondered was whether a modern AI could take a CBML and reconstruct the original graphic novel from it? I assume one could, given that we can now make realistic videos and images with a single sentence! Perhaps this could be a way of standardizing CBML: run it through a given AI model and if the reproduced version closely resembles the original, then the TEI accurately captures the text/book and can be used for more objective computational analysis.


## Ethan Haque
  11:22 PM
The act of quantifying or to apply a schema to a real-world object is a reductive act, because it removes nuance and detail from the source material. The Budak article describes how quantifying gender runs into problems stemming from this process, and I think that there exists a fundamental impossibility trying to describe and quantify gender. Oftentimes gender is used as a tool to describe nuance in our identities and to deviate from the status quo, and the reductive nature of quantification takes away the power of this tool. To quantify gender is to reinforce the status quo. It is to put a unique and layered identity back into a single, broad category. Of course, this is just a consequence of the creation of digital surrogates which we have already discussed. But, I think these are the interfaces where our biases really seep into the technological systems we build. The patterns we use and the things that tools like XML allow you to express are limited, and so the systems we build around them are finite. The Data-Sitters Club article brings up an interesting phenomenon that is not unique to coding TEI: a person's schema and their coding of the data can become quite personal. Their biases are reflected in the data the generate and the system they build around themselves.


## Pippa LaMacchia
  12:04 AM
After having presented on an archive about the study of graphic novels I was pleasantly surprised by the Data-sitter’s article. Learning about new approaches to the study of literary and visual texts and how their digitization contributes to their study — including the gaps that may arise — filled in many of the questions I was left with after my Data Biography presentation. While the article was engaging, informative and clear, I was still left with lingering thoughts about biases and being able to include personal emphasis at the beginning of the TEI process (as described in the “TEI is Personal” subsection). One section at the end that I really loved was from the interview when Elisa says “for me, computational text analysis is a way to find things that sets up on a path that historicizes, theorizes, etc - otherwise you just have some beautiful visualization that doesn’t mean much. But we can say, ‘here are some of the kinds of questions that this could lead us to start to ask.” I love this acknowledgement of TEI limits but also it’s potential. In the Digital Humanities, we are seeing so many possibilities arise so I appreciated this hopeful tone even while the field has many limitations.


## Emanuelle Sippy
  12:29 AM
I am interested in how these researchers pushed the boundaries of TEI to account for image, sound, personal or affective responses to literature, and gender. Shakespeare and Company Project’s adaptation to account for more expansive gender categories seems like a promising example of the possibilities for TEI and related tools progressing (Budak). It also seems like there are significant limitations to using these tools, especially considering forms of communication that are not based in text. It was also interesting that to keep tag names consistent, research in other languages is still confined by English-speaking norms. As Elisa put it: “‘people want the tag names to be stable and persistent. So, the TEI…tag has a stable meaning to Japanese TEI encoders. They don’t necessarily want to change it. What they want is the explanation to be written in their language.’” Sometimes concepts and ways of thinking cannot easily be translated or do not even exist in other languages, so the default way that researchers using TEI are operating according to Elisa seems limiting and cannot be separated from aspects of cultural supremacy, which are important to consider. Relatedly, I am interested to learn more about the work of the researchers who have adapted TEI for research on particular marginalized communities, as Lee and Quinn referenced.


## Helen Gao
  1:51 AM
I appreciated that “The DSC and the Impossible TEI Quandaries” walked through the process of marking up comic books, and I think the examples were especially illustrative (literally and figuratively) of the considerations in marking up graphic novels. I also appreciated the sprinkling of jokes throughout the blog post-style article; the authors felt very personable, even through a screen. I did find it interesting that this article recommended modifying standard schema, because that suggestion seems to be at odds with what other articles we’ve read in the past have advocated for (that is, consistent and strict adherence to standards within a field).

“Representing Gender in the Shakespeare and Company Project” was interesting, because it reflected the difficulties of trying to apply modern ideas about gender to historical figures. I appreciated all of the considerations that went into the Shakespeare and Company Project’s decisions with regards to how best to represent gender and sex, and it was interesting to read about how different projects’ approaches influenced each other, such as how the Shakespeare and Company Project adopted a feature of the Linked Jazz Project database’s structure. I do wish the article had offered answers to the demographic research questions that it posed, as I thought they were quite intriguing.


## Layla Williams
  3:16 AM
The Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) begins to answer some of the questions I had about my dataset for the data biography. I wondered how things like race might come into play when a computer is the one that is compiling and organizing the data (as I was looking through the Bechdel test and different movies). I found the part of the article when the computer creates stereotypical creations or non-representations of the characters striking. This is especially true when we think about how computers first have to learn from humans before being able to study things on their own. This is a reflection of the prejudices of society literally being encoded within the analysis of a piece of media. When thought about in conjunction with how AI is being used to then generate creative material, it makes me wonder about how the AI might learn to reincorporate these stereotypes into the narratives that it creates. We would be continuing to push forward the narratives that we analyze in order to end them. Moreover, I found it interesting in the Shakespeare and Company article how they noted the difference between finding a way that the company might have described themselves and the fact that it was probably more of what the bookkeepers decided to call them. It makes you think more about the records that we might be digitizing and how we should always be critical with the information we engage with.

