# Reflection on Week 8.2 readings
- Binongo
- Juola
- McNamara
- Dederer

## Pia Bhatia
  10:55 AM
As I wrote in my annotation, I'm still skeptical that the style of an author can be reduced to the frequency of certain words. Yes, these tools can elucidate the recurrence of certain subject matter and identify otherwise hidden motifs, but ‘style,’ at least to me, is at its core a qualitative notion. Reading reviews one finds assessments of a writer’s tone or the way they employ language that is  concise/baroque/vulgar/etc. I think one way I might be more convinced is if words are not looked at separately but within the context of various phrases — the recurrence of these might help show an author’s tendencies in a more descriptive manner. Binongo himself writes, “The English language is replete with aural ambiguities.” All this said, the graphical analysis does show that this tool can be revelatory of even subtle differences, which makes me reconsider my view to a certain extent.


## Alison Fortenberry
  1:57 PM
I found both of the articles about authorship attribution really interesting as they broke down the process of how to quantify a writer’s voice. Something I found really interesting in the Oz reading was how some articles were removed that would not have been in the Beatles reading from Monday. In this context, ‘the’ really made no difference, but it did in analyzing Beatles’ song authorship. What other kinds of little differences like that are made with trying to determine authorship for different kinds of texts?
To the questions about J. K. Rowling, I do agree that if we stop giving her attention, she would go away in our daily lives, but I don’t know if using her work in this way qualifies as giving her attention. We are not interacting with her on a public platform (and thus amplifying her hateful messages), we are not financially supporting her, and we are not even reading her books. In the ways that matter to amplifying her beliefs, we are ignoring her. We are introducing her to our class’ discourse, and if there was another lab that we could easily replicate within the confines of our class, that would be preferable. Still, I think engaging with the text in this way, with a disclaimer attached that this lab does nothing to endorse Rowling’s hateful speech, allows us to use her work to a specific end without endorsing or amplifying her beliefs. Also, with the widespread popularity of Harry Potter, it is not as if we are not introducing the unknown work of an unknown author to the course, and I would feel differently if Rowling was an up and coming transphobic writer that we were choosing to amplify. I recognize, however, that as a cisgender person, I cannot fully assess the harm of this usage to the transgender community, and would defer to members of that community in weighing the costs and benefits of using Rowling’s works in this way. I think keeping the conversation open to different perspectives, and being willing to change as we hear those perspectives is integral to how we engage with hateful authors.


## Andrew Huo
  5:21 PM
Binongo’s, “Who Wrote the 15th Book of Oz? An Application of Multivariate Analysis to Authorship Attribution,” and Juola’s, “Rowling and ‘Galbraith’: An Authorial Analysis”,” were both interesting case studies on the potential of stylometry in dictating authorship attribution. Binongo’s analysis identifies Ruth Plumly Thompson as the author of the 15th Oz novel yet it is impossible to determine if the idea behind the book was created by Baum or Thompson, which I believe is just as important of a question. Juola’s study spawned new questions about stylometry. First of all, there are other dimensions of authorial style like temporal shifts in the author’s life but also what about genre, professional vs colloquial writing, children vs adult literature. There seem to be so many factors that affect function words. The most fascinating result was the fact that the analyses were mixed but pointing strongly towards Rowling. Juola states, “nothing in the analysis constituted “proof” of Rowling’s authorship.” Afterwards, Rowling, herself, confessed but I am curious how her action contributed to the legitimacy of stylometry in this case as a sort of working backwards confirmation. Were the results in this study reaffirmed due to the confession and thus paving the way for more research. What would have happened if there was no sense of conclusivity?
Lastly, the ethical question about separating art from the artist. This is a complicated question that I believe needs to be assessed on a case by case basis. In terms of Rowling and Harry Potter, there is an deeper sadness stated in Dederer’s chapter – the fact that a  story about accepting otherness did not include the Trans community that made up a lot of the Harry Potter readership. Personally, I believe we can separate Rowling from her novels since there is no direct connection between her views on Trans people and the novel. Harry Potter works on its own as a story with a hopeful, touching message. If there were hidden layers of dehumanizing Trans people in the story that would be a whole other question. I don’t think Harry Potter should stop being read just as I don’t think Rowling or any other controversial artist should be studied. We all need to be aware of these ethical concerns and hypocricies – that someone who cares about accepting oneself does not accept an entire community. Art needs to be learned in context with the artist and their flaws but this also does not mean the art cannot still be appreciated. These two ways of thinking can co-exist and the more we learn about human flaws, sadness, inconsistencies, the more of a healthy and helpful difference we can make in the future.


## James Sowerby
  7:30 PM
I found the article on the Oz style to be surprisingly interesting—I thought it was quite well-written and presented a worthy treatment of the method even as I find the question of Oz authorship to be a slightly pedantic and tedious question. I think Raphi's comment on the article was spot on, for one of my favorite lines in the article was Binongo's comment that rereading all of the texts to sort out errors was the most time-intensive task of the research but somehow the most enjoyable. It's great to keep that in mind, seeing a little bit deeper into the research process, but it also reminds us to find topics to investigate that are not just academically but also personally important. To borrow a word from the Dederer article, I have a great nostalgia for these sort of childhood fantastical "dreamscapes," and, although I never read any of Baum or Thompson's books, I have a great sympathy for those who do.
Although I did read the Harry Potter books, I must admit that I was never really conscious of J.K. Rowling as an author. In fact, I did not—and still to this day when I occasionally fantasy novels again —focus in on the author's identity, story, and least of all political views. One of the Perusall comments from last class mentioned Barthes' death of the author idea, which I do think is quite relevant here. I do think Rowling is wrong in her views, but I don't completely agree that it has complete bearing on her work. You could get into the endlessly complicated ethical calculus of supporting her as an anti-trans mouthpiece by continuing to read her books and provide her with revenue, but I think that idea is unsustainable and unproductive.  Harry Potter—more than most other media franchises—has exploded far beyond J.K Rowling's original books and has moved past her as its owner or creator. Perhaps I am informed by my childhood and my sympathy to Barthes' idea, but I think that the LATimes article might have a point. Perhaps no other book is so easily separated from its author than Harry Potter.


## Raphaela Gold
  8:51 PM
This Thursday’s readings were definitely thought provoking, especially as they focused on two texts of great importance to me: The Wizard of Oz and Harry Potter. I appreciated that throughout his article, Binongo reflected on the challenges and joys he encountered in this project. It is often hard to get a sense of how authors view the process of their own work within the work itself, so it was nice to see that Binongo most enjoyed the time-consuming, painstaking part of the project which required him to reread the Wizard of Oz books rather than the data results. The question of who had written the 15th Oz book stuck with me because I was surprised that people accepted Thompson’s work as a canonical part of the series. I wondered what separated Thompson’s and Gardner’s books from fanfiction and why their works were so easily incorporated into the canon. Now, many fans continue the stories written by many authors through fan fiction, but those works, even book-length ones, rarely if ever become part of the canonical corpus of work. This left me wondering how Thompson was chosen as Baum’s successor, and whether it was based more on similarities in style or in content or skill, because later it was discovered that they significantly differed in style. Binongo’s Multivariate Analysis provided the potential answer that it was not based on style, but some other factor.

Perhaps the shared element of an enthusiastic fan-base is why the J.K. Rowling text was assigned alongside the Oz study. In response to the question posed with the readings about whether we can separate the study of J.K. Rowling’s authorship from her personal opinions, I believe that we absolutely can, and that not doing so would be a mistake because we might be missing out on important opportunities for analysis of her work and comparing it to other texts. Based on Dederer’s article, cancel culture and fan culture are strongly correlated. Fans, especially nowadays when so much information is available, are invested not just in a novel but also in the author, not just the TV show but also the actor, and artists now need to achieve a much higher standard and are expected to speak out about many issues in order to keep fans happy. Having fans on the one hand keeps an artist in the spotlight, increasing publicity, but that increased publicity means artists must tread more carefully in modern times. People form their entire identities around pieces of media, but I reject Dederer’s assertion that this is a form of identity theft.

In my mind, discovering more about one’s identity through a work of art is one of the truest forms of identity-finding, in which a person comes more into their own through the art, and the work of art becomes more important because it helped people discover their identities. That is my relationship with the Harry Potter series. Those books helped me become me, but J.K. Rowling had nothing to do with it – it was about the magic of the books, which for me was unrelated from the author of those books. As Dederer points out, the books are about everyone being chosen, everyone having a place. If people “have an endless fascination with the parameters of [their] own selfhood,” as Dederer claims, Harry Potter manages to become part of oneself by helping on define oneself.

By building this world, Rowling allowed her fans not just to inhabit it, but to bring it with them here, into our world. It is not just a series which allows people to project onto characters they relate to, it allows for people to enter into the world itself and cast themselves as wizards, figuring out where they belong with the full confidence that they do belong somewhere. This brings me back to Thompson and others expanding Baum’s writing; while it is not quite the same, because Harry Potter fanfiction and fan art represent not just continuations of a story but claiming of a story for one’s own self, both involve questions of identity, authorship, and manhood.

The article on Rowling and Galbraith helped clarify for me what people who work with stylometry require in order to be able to trace an author: those being machine-readable copies of a text, clean samples of a comparable work undisputedly by the author, and other comparable samples by other writers known as “distractor authors”. These requirements reminded me of a scientific experiment, where one needs a control group in order to test a hypothesis. It was an interesting read and I think it should be offered again in the future. Voicing disapproval for Rowling does not eclipse our ability to learn about her work, Ian my view.

Overall, I think that refraining from including this author in research would mean losing out on opportunities to further the field of Digital Humanities, and it would be robbing ourselves of the joys of enjoying Rowling’s art. We need to engage, ask questions, challenge. We can’t challenge someone or something if we pretend they don’t exist. As Rowling herself wrote in the books, with regards to the villain Voldemort, “fear of the name increases fear of the thing itself.”


## Pippa LaMacchia
  9:36 PM
These were an interesting series of readings — first the very technical discussion about computationally analyzing authorship from Binongo and then the transition into the discussion about Rowling’s authorship and subsequently thinking about the relationship between art and artist. To begin with the computational and statistical analysis portion, I am honestly a little skeptical about these methods because even though it’s an incredibly interesting way to study texts and linguistic patterns, there is so little surety. In fact, the method itself is described as a “suggestion” and commentary about the importance of quality of the data implies that these methods are only propositions. Obviously these are very interesting ways to analyze texts that are generally challenging, but it may also be a dangerous route of study because these results can likely be misconstrued or misinterpreted. In something like the Rowling case, if The Cuckoo’s Calling wasn’t written by Rowling and yet they still credit her with it, there are many ways to harm other artists and authors. Finally, just to echo some of my peers, I agree that separating the art from the artist is (and has always been) a necessity in any field of study or personal enjoyment. The art is NOT the artist, and in something like the Harry Potter case, the public has so sincerely redefined the text which gives the series authentic value completely separate from Rowling.


## Clay Glovier
  10:26 AM
I enjoyed reading Binongo’s work Who Wrote the 15th Book of Oz. I think the stylometric analysis that he deploys to answer the question of authorship is something that humanistic researchers should embrace, rather than fear. Stylometry should not be viewed as replacing humanistic research or humanities researchers, but as a helpful tool that can be used in tandem with humanistic work to most accurately determine the answer to complex questions. Reading the pieces on J.K. Rowling by Mary McNamara and Claire Dederer, entitled respectively Here’s an Idea: Maybe if we all just stop talking about J.K. Rowling she’ll go away, and Monsters, A Fan’s Dilemma, I do not think that studying her literary works is problematic. By failing to engage with such a tremendous quantity of text, we are empowering Rowling to destroy the magical world that has given so much to so many. I think that the worst thing for Rowling would be to fade into obscurity, and I think that ignoring her while continuing to read her work is the best way to do this, as her cultural relevance is dismissed. Continuing to provide her a platform to spread her views gives her words the most influence, and should be avoided. (edited) 


## Anya Kalogerakos
  3:28 PM
I found the Binongo reading very clear and well done, and it did a good job of describing the process and merit of stylometry to determine authorship. One thing that I wished the paper did more to address was the ability of stylometry to detect an author’s influences. It was my understanding that the general consensus on who actually wrote the 15th Wizard of Oz was Thompson. To me, the question at hand seemed more related to whether or not Thompson relied on some of Baum’s notes or left over writings to create this story. While the difference in writing between Thompson and Baum was relatively clear cut, the estimation of how much was Thompson’s own original idea vs Baum’s suggested idea was not described. I am curious if it is even possible to measure an author’s influence on another author via stylometry (for instance, does Baum influence Thompson moreso in the 15th novel than later novels written without the influence of Baum). As for the discussion surrounding J.K. Rowling, I do think it is possible to separate her works from her personal opinions in order to further scholarship, though at the end of the day it should be an individual’s choice as to whether or not they are comfortable using, analyzing, and reading her works given her perspective.


## Talia Goldman
  4:28 PM
Reading Binongo’s “Who Wrote the 15th Book of Oz” was interesting as another in-depth example of the application of traditional stylometry. In comparison to the J.K. Rowling case study, I found the questions of authorship in the Oz example perhaps more intriguing due to the question of a third author, as well as how authors after Baum tried to remain true not only to his ideas, but sometimes, his style. I find that these efforts to actually write books in line with Baum’s own provides additional credibility to stylometry, which parses details of an author’s “voice.” As I noted in one of my annotations, I also appreciated this article's distinction between “voice” and “fingerprint,” as I feel that this embraces the ambiguities and, at times, personal and artistic nature of the humanities.
To the question of whether to include J.K. Rowling in this discussion of stylometry, I would agree with many of the posts above that using the Rowling case study is alright. Though I do find the connection between stylometry and the story behind books quite interesting, these sort of biographical/historical questions may not always relate so closely to stylometric analysis. If the Rowling example is focused on demonstrating how stylometry can be used and how it works, rather than emphasizing story behind it (while interesting), perhaps this takes attention away from Rowling as a person, though this particular discussion of Rowling still does not quite relate to her very problematic viewpoints.


## Melissa Woo
  5:14 PM
I thought the technical details presented in Binongo’s work were interesting. It gave good detail into the process of stylometry and critically considered the authorship of the 15th Book of Oz. I do, however, also think that there are several key decisions in the methodology that are glossed over. For example, the data cleaning of the 14 original works and 15th contested work was summarized into a single paragraph, perhaps underestimating the impact that such choices could have on the work’s findings. I did, however, appreciate that the writing was less apologetic than some of the others that we’ve read. The limitations of the work, particularly as it relates to not being able to verify if the work was or wasn’t based on original notes, were stated clearly but the statistical findings that point to the 15th work being in Thompson’s pen were substantiated.
Continuing to read and analyze Rowling's work within the context of Digital Humanities and stylometry classes can offer valuable insights into authorship attribution techniques and stylistic analysis. Separating the technical examination of her writing from her personal opinions allows for a critical exploration of textual patterns and authorial signatures without endorsing or promoting her controversial views. I think that if we are to engage, it must be with the understanding that appreciating an author's literary contributions does not equate to condoning their harmful beliefs or actions. By openly acknowledging the discrepancies between Rowling's creative output (and the popular culture that has come of it with regard to, for example, Harry Potter games or Universal Studio Wizarding World) and her public statements, we can demonstrate a commitment to intellectual rigor, critical thinking, and ethical awareness. This then requires a critical awareness of her controversial opinions – I think that not mentioning it at all could be viewed as tacit agreement, or at least lack of consideration, which would be unethical.


## Emanuelle Sippy
  10:52 PM
I agree with Dederer’s analysis of the way that Harry Potter fans came to define themselves not only in relation to the characters but in relation to the author herself and to a community of fans. Dederer suggests that a large portion of this was an “unembodied community” created online (Dederer 7). But she also details the ways in which the imaginary world of the books created a very real social network in which peers forged deep relationships with each other. It was no longer just a matter of connecting to the text but rather connecting through the text. This experience of “intimacy” (Dederer 4) even though it is contrived in some ways—particularly online and with the author—holds powerful weight and produces intense affective responses. One of these is what she characterizes as “shame,” pointing out that it is both a “noun and verb.” I was also struck by McNamara’s observation that “Rowling herself still seems bewildered that the story of an oppressed young boy discovering that he was in fact someone very different than he had been led to believe — and finding power, love and friendship in that difference — could be seen as remotely dangerous children or families.” The resonances between Harry’s story and that of many queer kids—often a complex combination of alienation and community, othering and belonging—is hard to ignore, and although Rowling may deny these resonances, the interpretations of an author's work are ultimately not up to them. Part of what I find interesting about this conversation in the context of our course and a focus on stylometry in particular goes back to the Dictionary of Affect and how emotion is a critical tool for understanding language whether using statistical or close-reading methods, whether seeking to do macro or micro analysis. Because human emotion is so complex and difficult to categorize and human emotion is embedded in literature no matter the mode of analysis, I appreciated Binongo’s point that stylometry is not an exact science—and is more akin to “‘signature or ‘voice’” than a “fingerprint.”


## Layla Williams
  1:16 AM
Based on the topics discussed in this week’s readings, I wonder exactly how much stylometry can catch when doing analysis. In other words, what might need to be the extent in which an author can go to try to trick the stylometric tools? For example, I found the example of Garnder and his explanation of trying to emulate Baum’s writing style, studying his life, and then continuing the narratives of Oz a potential example of this. If an author (or dedicated fan, such as discussed in the Dederer article) actively tries to write like another author, is the machine powerful enough to tell the difference between the copy and the original? If not, could this potentially be a solution when writers of beloved franchises get “canceled” or become highly problematic outside of their creative work? However, I also see how this might not necessarily be feasible or if this is something that can only happen on a large scale with a corpus of texts (such as how it made such a difference in the analysis of Baum and Thompson’s writings when one author had 15 texts available and the other only had 7). What, then, is the minimum number of texts that we need to use for reference for author authentication?


## Ethan Haque
  2:57 AM
Regarding this course's use of J.K. Rowling: I think it is relevant and has been useful to use her and her works in our discussions. Doing most types of meaningful scholarship requires engaging with ideas we might strongly disagree with, or with people whom we simply don't like at all. Moreover, I think the acknowledgements and disclaimers provided w.r.t. Rowling are quite tactful and are important in this context. I agree that there are people who spread hate and ideas that would disappear if we stopped talking about them, but I also think that there are settings where it is more productive to talk about these people and ideas than it is to actively ignore their existence. In these cases, it's important to acknowledge complex landscape they're situated in. If there exists a case study at least as good as J.K. Rowling provides, use that one. If not, it's ok to use her as long as it's handled with tact and respect.
This got me thinking of Francis Galton who is famous for pioneering fundamental statistical tools like regression toward the mean and the idea of correlation. This is the guy the Galton board is named after. What's perhaps a little less well-known is he pioneered eugenics and coined the term himself. He had some good ideas, but he really used them to do some pretty terrible things. In a discussion of Galton's life and work it's probably important to mention these darker details.
Also, I was a little surprised to learn that PCA was applied to stylometry not as long as ago as I thought it might be. Probably because PCA and generally matrix factorization techniques are now common and unimpressive mathematical tools, but maybe 20-30 years ago their use was more novel. PCA/SVD/EVD have been around for something like a hundred years, though.


## Helen Gao
  4:36 AM
I appreciated that “Who Wrote the 15th Book of Oz?” not only described the authorship attribution process in technical detail, but also explained why certain choices were made (and the possible limitations due to the structure of English and what was technologically feasible at the time). Similarly, it was really interesting to read about Juola’s process for determining the authorship of The Cuckoo’s Calling, though the explanations seemed less thorough. The measures were of course objective, but many of the choices felt arbitrary – such as the chunks of 1000 lines, which feels like a number chosen out of convenience, and the non-traditional choice of distance formula. Juola even described one of the tests as being “unreliable”, which raises the question of why it was used at all. Nonetheless, I enjoyed reading about the process and the choices that go into authorship attribution.
I find it ironic that McNamara wrote an article about J.K. Rowling arguing that we should stop talking about J.K. Rowling. I think Rowling’s work has enabled informative investigations and likely advanced the field of digital humanities as a whole, but I think it’s important to remember that publishing research on Rowling’s work likely does increase her book sales, whether because researchers need to buy her books to analyze the text, and/or because the research increases the profile of the books and leads others to buy them. However, this is not the case when studying her work in a classroom setting – recognizing that her views are harmful and that these views might be reflected in her writing should be enough for students to analyze Rowling’s work responsibly.


## Colin Brown
  8:21 AM
First, I found that the Binongo reading helped me better understand the utility of using functional words in stylometry instead of only rare or unique words. After learning about topic modeling, which of course focuses on more of the “special” words in a text, it was interesting to see a real example of how the other bag of words - the common words - have a massive utility as well. More broadly, I found the Binongo paper to have well-written methodology sections, clearly outlining how he procured the data and did the analysis; this can be hard to find in some computational research.
I had certainly heard about much of the J.K. Rowling controversy, but I had never actually looked much into it. As such, the three readings about her helped fill me in on that story. Additionally, it was interesting to see a humanities-based tool become known and popular by solving a question centered around a celebrity’s controversy. It made me think about the means by which humanities research - and to a larger extent, scientific research - reaches the public eye; rather than stylometry receiving attention for being a powerful tool, it gets praise for exposing Rowling. I wonder what other examples there are of DH reaching into the popular sphere?