# Reflections 

- Digital Humanities Manifesto 2.0
- Catherine D'Ignazio and Lauren F. Klein, Data Feminism [talk]

## Clay Glovier
  7:44 PM
I enjoyed listening to D’Ignazio’s talk Data Feminism: What Does Feminist Data Science Look Like, and reading Presner’s Digital Humanities Manifesto 2.0. I think that D’Ignazio was right in that data science has the power to help women by displaying to the public in simple numbers complex phenomena and otherwise difficult to prove disparities between genders. In addition, I think utilizing data science can help feminist causes by allowing researchers to visualize these numbers and present them to audiences in easy to understand ways. In Presner’s work, I enjoyed reading about how humanities studies have sought to “define culture and help us gain a greater understanding of the human experience.” I agree with his assertion that the humanities must survive because of their unique ways of producing information. While other STEM-focused disciplines have recently received the most attention for producing the most novel ideas, such as in science and engineering, the methods through which humanistic studies produce new information is also useful and should be maintained. With the advent of digital humanities, it does not seem that the discipline will die, but rather will become strengthened by its increasing use of quantitative methods that will increase the ability to visualize data and communicate ideas to the public.


## Raphaela Gold
  4:06 PM
I learned a great deal from Fiona Steele’s conversation with Catherine D’Ignazio and Lauren Klein. I had never heard of “data feminism” before and was very glad that it was included in this final week of class because after learning about it, I think it’s very important to understand the intersection of gender, race, and other identities in the digital humanities, and discover how feminist thought can guide digital humanists toward more ethical processes in data science. I really appreciated how D’Ignazio and Klein grounded their work in the particular feminist theory that they were drawing from and the seven principles they chose to use as a framework, using intersectional feminism which focuses on power imbalances and the structural forces that have historically caused them. To D’Ignazio and Klein, feminism is more than just advocating for the rights of women, it is an ideology of critiquing structures of power and challenging ourselves and those in power to rethink binaries and hierarchies. The principle “make labor visible” particularly stood out to me. In a capitalist system in which so many are alienated from their labor, calling attention to and amplifying the often invisible labor that goes into data projects is crucial. It was also incredibly helpful that the researchers brought the specific example of feminicide as a project, as it calls attention to an incredibly important issue for which the researchers used locally driven expertise rather than choosing to make this into a universal database. It was also a nuanced approach, in that the researchers recognized that some populations that are already marginalized are under far more scrutiny by systems of power, and that making these individuals and their struggles more visible will not necessarily help in all cases.

Some of these same values of anti-oppressive, intersection practices were reflected in Prisoner’s Digital Humanities Manifesto as well. It was helpful to have the definitional framework of “manifesto” as a literary handbill – a written document that reaches out, beckons in, and fends off all in one. Presner described the manifesto as “a genre in a hurry,” which I believe is fitting for the field of digital humanities, which seems to be a field in a hurry, one which is concerned with accelerating nd evolving quickly in order to stay on top of and even ahead of the times. Yet, though we’ve often used the language “the field of Digital Humanities” throughout this course, Presner defines it as “an array of convergent practices,” as opposed to a field. This feels like an accurate representation of DH to me, since I have come to see it as a set of tools one can apply across many fields and mutlidisciplinary efforts. Presner’s identification of a quantitative “first wave” of DH and following that, a more qualitative, interpretive, experiential, emotive, generative “second wave” reminded me of data feminism. Just as the first wave of feminism was more quantitative and siloed off from other issues and the second wave was more intersectional and expansive, so too was the case with digital humanities. The conception of digital humanities as a “real of open sources and resources” reflected the way in which the feminist authors from the video made a digital version of their book entirely open to the public, reinforcing the idea that DH is at times (in my opinion, when it is at its best) a counter-cultural field concerned overall with increasing access, and in cases where it isn’t, it certainly should be.


## Alison Fortenberry
  6:42 PM
Something that stuck out to me from the Presner et al. reading was the idea of co-creation and teamwork in digital humanities. I think a lot of times we tend to think of research and scholarship as a very personal process, or something worked on as a specific research team. The idea of putting something into the world and having other individuals or teams collaborate in transforming or elevating that original work is really interesting, and not something I’ve considered before in thinking about how to interact ethically with others’ work.
I really enjoyed the data feminisms talk and the discussion of how much thought can be put into intersectional feminist, bottom-up research approaches. Something that really stood out to me was the discussion at the end about not being able to decide how others will use work we put out into the world. Generally when working on a research project, I tend to make sure that I’m creating or using data ethically, but I never thought to consider how others could use that data, and to what end. This seems especially relevant when working with the kinds of data the authors were discussing, but I think these ethical considerations should be part of the thought process with any sort of published work. Someone working on a classic humanities, close-reading literature critique should consider on some level how they’re arguments can be reapplied, and to what argumentative end. Obviously, we can’t control others’ actions, but trying to limit misapplications of our work should at least be a consideration before publishing.


## Talia Goldman
  10:34 PM
I really enjoyed the “Data Feminism” talk. I particularly appreciate how the D'Ignazio and Klein seek to provide ways to “operationalize” data science and digital humanities with verbs such as challenge or embrace. It emphasizes that each listener can be an active agent in data feminism, especially in breaking down institutionalized systems of power which contributed to the foundations DH studies, such as the exclusion of women from data collection. With their principle “Embrace Pluralism” and dive into the “Data Against Femicide” project, I thought that the speakers exemplified Presner’s understanding of DH as countercultural and a community that involves the university, but does not contain “expert” just into the University walls. I also liked how the video emphasized, at the end, how the results of data and data feminism can be shared not only in journals and newspapers, but art and more “informal” ways that support Presner’s advocacy for open source. Perhaps this connects also to Presner’s discussion of curation and its relationship to scholarship and “a more fluid public realm” (Presner 9). This part of Presner's manifesto seemed most important and even most countercultural to me. Overall, I found these two materials to be an important consideration of intersectionality and ethics in DH, and highlighted for me the need to push our considerations of what DH is so that it can best serve underrepresented communities and spread knowledge outside the university.
New


## Colin Brown
  3:26 PM
I enjoyed listening to D’Ignazio and Klein’s talk on Data Feminism for the way that it bridged inclusive principles to data science. I previously hadn’t thought to frame big data in this way, but it makes sense that most of the data that we collect is on the most represented and favored groups. It reminded me of some discussions we had in my intro to machine learning class where we talked about the biases that occur in a model due to biases in the data fed into it. It makes sense then that without embracing pluralism, as D’Ignazio and Klein say, we can leave out marginalized groups.
The Presner article was an interesting read. What of course stood out to me was first the formatting and layout of the paper. Presner liberally includes images throughout his writing, and even varies the appearance of the text throughout. My interpretation of this was that Presner is attempting to capture the multiplicity and diversity of thought that can be achieved through digital humanities in comparison to more traditional humanities studies. I thought it also captured Presner’s support for open source projects and data collection. While I appreciate the effects that this layout had and many of his claims about how to define digital humanities, the appearance did make the writing harder to follow or understand at times. Definitely a unique paper to wrap up the class with!


## Ethan Haque
  3:38 PM
I like the Digital Humanities Manifesto 2.0 a lot. The authors are a little unhinged, but, at times, make some coherent strong claims that I think are ahead of their time. They call to attention how the process of obtaining conclusions is ever more integral to the humanities. That is, they are on the same level of importance as the result themselves. They also have this little section talking about how Google seeks to organize the world information and make it universally accessible, which fits the narrative they're telling in that moment, but I think we ought not to take that motto at face value. Maybe it should read something closer towards, "to organize the world's information, to figure out who you are and what you want in order to sell you more stuff." I hope that the shift to decentralized platforms brings upon a day where information is much more decentralized and IP is not something the uber wealthy individuals, businesses, and institutions will claw away from the minds of the public and the curious. That digital humanities expands and reflects upon itself to bring about these changes for the greater good of scholarship and the pursuit of truth.


## Pia Bhatia
  3:48 PM
The LSE Online Event Data Feminism: what does feminist data science look like? was illuminating to watch. It highlighted the lived harms that have already been incurred from imperfect data processing, which was useful considering the breadth of research papers we have encountered over the semester that tended to include their wariness of what they were proposing being misunderstood and misused. The first example that I was really struck by was the mention of US child abuse statistics being employed to devastating effects for families where abuse has not happened, which demonstrated an extreme case to illustrate the precarity of this issue. The prediction of A-level scores being a disaster was fascinating as well.
What I was most struck by, however, was the part of the presentation where the two researchers broke down how they do this kind of work: namely, what metrics they use to explore gender biases in data processing. The concept of combing through data from Latin American NGOs for mentions of emotional labor or feminist aspects in media articles was inspiring as a way to use a very human-focussed social phenomenon to create better data processing. Also, the YouTube comments on the video were interesting…


## Anya Kalogerakos
  4:09 PM
The Digital Humanities Manifesto 2.0 was a very disorienting read–not necessarily in a bad way. While I thought they had a variety of strong points, including the value of digital humanities to attract new interest and exploration by expanding the range of humanities scholarship and impact, the actual process of reading the manifesto was a bit disorienting. I know this must have been done with reason, though I am not sure I follow the reasoning. A couple details I thought were particularly salient were the ideas of using intellectual property to open up (instead of close down) intellectual pursuits, as well as ideas of open source co-creation. To me, stressing these details seemed to contradict the relatively individualistic nature of the humanities, which I found refreshing (although my perception of the humanities may be very inaccurate in this). I found the D’Ignazio and Klein talk to exceed my expectations–many times in discussions about intersectional feminism in any kind of field, there are always many recommendations, but few examples of how these recommendations are put into practice. I thought the way D’Ignazio and Klein put data feminism into practice was very impressive. Furthermore, their explanation of data as a powerful resource in the hands of a few, missing datasets due to a lack of focus on particular marginalized groups, and the use of data collection for activism was very interesting. They also impressively combatted the tendency to centralize and automate data collection by keeping the data collection local and emotionally connected, which truly goes against modern data collection norms.

## James Sowerby
  9:14 PM
I agree with Anya—the Digital Humanities Manifesto 2.0 used an innovative structure to introduce its ideas. In fact, I thought this disorientation was perhaps the most interesting part of its argument because it actively put into practice the kind of radical normative theory that it itself espouses. Digital humanities is a revolution that encompasses all aspects of scholarship in the new academic landscape that it creates. The manifesto is a polemic, continually defining digital humanities in respect to the traditional "well-intentioned 'voices of reason'" that try to preserve the anachronistic, facile methods of the past. I find the language to be in certain places overwrought and overly inflammatory, particularly in its repeated references to Big Disney and other inflammatory quasi-conspiracy theories, but I generally do not think that this compromised the text's worth to us. In fact, I think it helped me recapture some of the strangeness of digital humanities. Over the course of the semester, I have grown acquainted with the methodologies and tools of the field and thereby lost some of the awe at its potential. But this manifesto's energy has helped me recontextualize our lessons by remembering just how transformative digital humanities can be. This is also why I deeply appreciated the LES virtual lecture because, as Raphi mentioned in her reflection, it showed concrete examples of how digital methods can and will contribute directly to specific, concrete projects that underlay a new kind of informed activism. I loved their examples, but the sections on invisible labor and the library of missing data were particularly moving. As the course comes to a close, I'm thinking a lot about how these ideas will change my work at Princeton and beyond. While I do not have the technical skills to pull off a lot of these data transformations, I am a far better analyst in all critical disciplines, not just the humanities, for having studied these things.


## Melissa Woo
  9:15 PM
The Presner Digital Humanities Manifesto 2.0 was an interesting overview of sorts of many of the topics that we’ve talked about throughout the semester, making it a fitting reading for one of our last classes. I thought the tone with which the content was presented was quite interesting – I read an article the other day that talked about how using lowercase capitalization in contexts that would usually call for capital case is an intentional indication of a more casual or conversational tone. This feels like a finding that generalizes to this reading as the use of lowercase for the subtitle and section headings felt to convey a lack of formality and open-mindedness that is reminiscent of the more casual approach to defining digital humanities and introducing its strategies and implications. The use of the pictures was also rather interesting as it broke up the text and called attention to certain phrases and concepts in a way that words alone would not have done.
The video on Data Feminism was interesting – I hadn’t fully appreciated the ways in which conventional data science for its reinforcement of existing power dynamics and gender biases. I’ve learned about feminist principles of intersectionality, equity, and inclusion, but hadn’t thought about applying it to data, which is inherently not neutral. It definitely resonates with the idea that data often reflects the biases of those who collect, analyze, and interpret it – just as we’ve talked about in the concepts of data collection and visualization, decisions matter and change the insights and findings.


## Pippa LaMacchia
  9:57 PM
Both D’Ignazio & Klein’s Data Feminism research video as well as Presner’s Digital Humanities Manifesto 2.0 were incredibly striking as conclusions to this course. As we have learned about the dozens of ways that scholars and researchers continue to expand the field of digital humanities (both qualitatively and quantitatively in terms of data organization/analysis as well as ethical implications), this reading and video illustrated the scope and importance of the digital humanities.
In the Digital Humanities Manifesto 2.0, I was immediately intrigued by the structure and tone. I have read many other manifestos of political and artistic movements and while this one seemed over-the-top at times, Presner was also very emphatic in a believable way. As other responses have mentioned, the point that defines the digital humanities as “an array of convergent practices” ties up the end of our course. It connects each methodology and social/political implication we have learned thus far into this one field, a powerful conclusion, in my opinion. I also loved the focus on teamwork and collaboration as a defining feature of the digital humanities because of this “array of practices” that it requires. Each expert is necessary in order to make the entire field productive. One final thought about this reading is that these scholars push against the idea that “digital” is overhauling the “humanities.” They instead point to a fusion and multiplicity that I believe to be very striking.
D’Ignazio & Klein’s Data Feminism research talk was particularly eye-opening because it is only in this course that I have begun to think critically about the intersection of equality and data (often because data is presented as “objective”). Near the end of the presentation they explain that “We need to continuously question the results… or what we could never learn from data alone.” This illuminates an essential part of their work — illuminating the subjective nature of data collection and analysis alongside its socio-political implications in the context of feminism and gender. I would love to further discuss how we can push back against bias and reinforce intersectional feminism in the field of digital humanities and data research.


## Layla Williams
  11:40 PM
When I think of a manifesto, I think of something that is succinct, clear, and easy to follow (almost as if it were an instruction manual for someone if they happened to be interested in whatever the manifesto was titled). However, I believe that the digital humanities manifesto felt a little confusing to read. It did not necessarily feel like a set of instructions but rather a coded list that only someone on the inside would be able to decipher and understand. It felt like an affirmation for people who were already in. On the other hand, I think the discussion of digital feminism was interesting because it brought in new ways to interrogate and investigate our data. For example, I found the examples of interrogating power structures rather than the holes in the data a powerful place to bring in theories of power. Moreover, I thought their discussion on what it means to start at the margins helpful to understanding the impact that digital feminism could have on the way we analyze data (starting at the margins addresses everyone’s needs rather than beginning in the middle with the majority). It is not just the way that we collect the data, but it is also important (if not more important) to consider the way we analyze the data and the angles we take into it. (edited) 

## Yaashree
Week 12.1 Response (LATE): Presner’s curious manifesto emphasized digital tools not just as supplements, but as central elements that redefine what it means to “do” humanities research. I appreciated his push for more collaboration in a way that breaks down traditional academic silos. I also appreciated his emphasis on using digital tools to enhance transparency and community engagement in humanities research. And finally, maybe controversially, I enjoyed the cheeky layout which –apart from the first page (of all pages, it is a bad idea for the first one to repel readers), was refreshing and fairly decipherable.
I found D’Ignazio and Klein’s exploration of how feminist theory influences data science really fascinating, especially their emphasis on intersectionality. Their presentation was more sophisticated than Presner’s manifesto but there were some resonances – in particular, the necessity of challenging and rethinking established norms in computational research. The possibility of using digital tools and data science to contribute positively to social justice is exciting and important, and I think it would be helpful to approach collecting, analyzing, and presenting data with an eye towards advancing equity. (edited) 
