# Week 10.2

- Scott Weingart
- Mark Alan Rhodes Li

## Raphaela Gold
  2:46 PM
Weingart’s focus on the ability of digital humanities project to represent relationships between different entities very much resonated with me. He pointed out that the word “network” was originally defined as a “net-like arrangement of threads, wires, etc.“, whereas now, we often consider networks for more abstractly, in terms of acts like “networking” or having a strong “social network”. Through digital visualizations of connections, however, we can reintroduce the more literal act of connectivity into the word and physically see connections. This made me think about how the focus of a lot of digital humanities projects we’ve seen is to show us relationships that might otherwise feel conceptually too large for us or too abstract to grasp. Allowing us to see these connections, even when they may still appear quite complex and difficult to navigate, can be a step toward better understanding of the literary and historical works with which humanities scholars engage (one example might be the map of relationships between characters in Hamlet that we looked at earlier in the semester).

However, one drawback Weingart pointed out was that, “as it stands now, network science is ill-equipped to deal with multi-modal networks.” Since the article was written in 2011, I wonder if there has been any progress on multi-modal networking since then. I did a bit of research and found this volume of Oxford’s Journal of the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations (https://academic.oup.com/dsh/article/38/3/1267/7078540). It seems that recently, there have been advancements in the development of multimodal deep learning models that can offer new possibilities for combining different modes like image and text in the same projects.

As for Rhodes’ exploration of Paul Robeson, I had never heard of Robeson before so it was really interesting to learn about his influence and discover that he was once possible the “most recognized” figure in the world, given how little I know of him now. I thought the approach of using Youtube to determine social influence was very creative and could definitely be replicated for other projects, as Rhodes mentioned in his conclusion. The question of digital heritage really interests me, and I believe that might help us understand why remember the people we remember, while others go forgotten.


## Anya Kalogerakos
  2:51 PM
The Weingart article did an excellent job of presenting networks and their potential uses and drawbacks. One question I still have after reading this article is how researchers gather data points that can be used for network-making. It seems like it would be very difficult to find accurate data that can lead to conclusions with inferred edges. Furthermore, the need to take into account the perspective of your network, especially in an inferred setting, makes it seem even more difficult to find and illustrate the proper data. The notion of centrality in a network makes intuitive sense to me (more important nodes will be more connected) though I am curious if this overlooks certain discrete relationships of power. For instance, what if a node is very well connected, but they operate under the instruction of a different, very disconnected node? The Rhodes article helped to show what network research may look like in practice, though I found it a little underwhelming in its conclusions. While the motivation and methods were fascinating (I love the idea of using YouTube to discern cultural values and memory), I thought that the ending network felt very cluttered and incomprehensible. It felt like the conclusions this paper reached via the network were quite broad, and could have been gathered by other methods of research. Still, it is a very cool method of study in digital humanities.


## Pia Bhatia
  5:05 PM
This week’s reading on Paul Robertson was really fascinating, particularly because I have noticed how many famous peoples’ legacies change posthumously because of social media. By showing various figures, such as the map that depicted the number of likes across the globe and average number of views, it was interesting to see another internet-induced phenomenon that is popular in the news, which is the idea of echo chambers based on what algorithms deduce to be our demographics and belief systems. Presenting the data in this way made it seem as though different localities were genuinely seeing different videos, which amplified this sense for me. I am curious how beyond data visualizations this ideal of a “deterritorialized world of flows” can be achieved. It was also incredibly disorienting to see how various aspects of Paul Robertson’s life (his political beliefs, music, etc.) were found in different localities: it was almost as if a map of the world tracked his personal and professional history, a representation that I was really struck by. The Demystifying Networks reading did help me understand some of the basic language that is used in this conversation, but I still wasn’t able to find places where the construction of networks would be actively harmful or misleading, though I’m sure that there are many.


## Pippa LaMacchia
  12:53 PM
Reading Weingart’s Demystifying Networks and Rhodes’ Paul Robertson’s Place in YouTube were incredibly illuminating to read simultaneously. I am drawn into network analysis because of the way in which it focuses on the connections between different but related objects or ideas. I can also understand its downfalls when the networks become to large and too complex — this raises the question for me about how truly useful this type of research is. If all of these networks have to be relatively simplified in order to make comprehensible conclusions, is there still authentic use to network analysis? Particularly when Weingart makes a point about how network visualizations are often simplified, preventing non-experts from fully understanding the scope of their conclusions. In order to reckon with these questions, I held onto the notion that network study is perhaps the most useful when it is focused on asking more questions within the context of whatever they’re studying instead of making grandiose and concrete conclusions. As always, having a specific example of how network analysis can be used in Rhodes’ article supported my original questions in Weingart’s work. At the end of the article, this study is acknowledged as imperfect (as almost all research is) because “youtube is not a lab environment.” This connects to my general overarching understanding of network analysis as providing groundwork for new questions — because social media and Wikipedia are so malleable and have such an enormous impact on social memory it is vital to contextualize these conclusions. Finally, I would like to point out the the end of Rhodes’ article emphasizes “meaning and emotion” — it forces me to ask, how can objective study capture the movement of human memory?


## Clay Glovier
  2:45 PM
I enjoyed reading both Scott Weingart’s Demystifying Networks, Part I & II, and Li Rhodes’ Paul Robeson’s Place in YouTube: A Social Spatial Network Analysis of Social Heritage. Even though Paul Robeson was from Princeton, I had never heard of him, which was surprising given I grew up here. There is a street named after him but I never knew the backstory of the name. It is incredible that he mastered so many different activities, becoming famous for his role in sports, music, and activism. I was also surprised to see that he was famous in a number of seemingly unrelated countries, and that his fame in each country differed in that in some places he was well known for music and in others for sports. This article’s focus on network analysis related to Weingart’s piece which explained how networks function in general. It was interesting to learn about how different types of networks can be used for very different tasks, such as using symmetric networks when looking at how highways connect cities, and asymmetrical networks when looking at how social groups function. I think that utilizing this methodology for analyzing problems has tremendous capabilities and that it should be applied more often to complex issues in the future. (edited) 


## Emanuelle Sippy
  3:22 PM
(4/4 -- sorry this is late)Monmonier’s warnings about the ways that maps can be manipulated and data can be distorted made me think about how often we encounter these distortions in our everyday lives– scrolling through social media, reading articles, consuming advertisements. The recommendations for best practices, such as “stating clearly the data units used and…not assuming that a trend apparent at one level of aggregation exists at other levels as well” (Monmonier 5) were very helpful. I think his overall point that “a single variable can yield many different maps” and that researchers might need more than one map to accurately depict findings is informative.
	I also thought Glasze’s piece was illuminating in tracing the intersections between cultural studies, physical space, and philosophical and political ideas over time. I was most struck by the idea that “imaginative geographies…coincide with the concrete appropriation of places” (Glasze 53). Given that imagination plays such a critical role in literature and politics, the things I spend more of my time thinking and learning about, it was interesting for me to consider the role of imagination in the intersection between physical space and culture. I am interested in how this reframes processes such as gentrification and colonization as not only processes of physical and place-based displacement but also imaginative and cultural displacement.
	Taken together, I think these pieces raise important points about what it means for research to ensure transparency and accuracy both in mapping and through interdisciplinary methods that take context and culture into account—another way of reducing distorted research findings.


## Talia Goldman
  8:26 PM
I found the Rhodes reading on Paul Robeson, YouTube, and networks particularly interesting, as many of the ideas on memory and YouTube resonated with my experiences with the platform. I was especially intrigued by the use of likes, dislikes, and comments as points from which to build a network about collective memory. It makes intuitive sense that such metrics of engagement in particular reflect collective memory, but putting this in the context of network analysis allowed for a concrete/quantitative analysis of how YouTube functions reflect digital heritage. Similarly, I thought the consideration of YouTube recommendations in the context of social network analysis was interesting. I’d like to see how similar studies are carried out on Instagram or other platforms where content is even more short-form and might offer interesting contributions to network analysis through the (perhaps greater) perceived social “importance” of followers. Considering the Rhodes reading in the context of the Weingart reading was enjoyable as well, and gave me proper grounding in how networks work, allowing me to appreciate the heritage work Rhodes does in his paper. Considering the “pathways” that connect content on YouTube, such as topic and location, gave me greater insight into how we can understand social media in the framework of Weingart’s bookshelf metaphor.
Lastly, I come away wondering, given the importance of considering cultural heritage cultivated on digital platforms, how well digital cultural material will be preserved for future network analysis –that is, with physical cultural heritage objects that are digitized and analyzed, the physicality of the past is still a part of these conversations, but comments, likes, dislikes, etc seem more difficult, in some ways, to keep track of, since collecting institutions are not keeping organized records of these types of reactions to cultural content. This might even bring up comparisons in ethical consideration of working with physical vs. digital cultural objects, especially considering questions of ownership and access, perhaps complicating the use of network analysis in different contexts.


## Andrew Huo
  4:23 PM
I have always heard the word “network” constantly throughout my day-to-day life, from academia to the Internet to business relationships, but never have I learned a formal (if basic) definition of what a network is. Scott B. Weingart’s article, “Demystifying Networks, Parts I & II” was a very helpful introduction to the terms and definitions of networks in academic research in a colloquial manner. The step-by-step explanations of nodes and edges were very clear for a non-STEM person. Ever since the article on map visualization two classes ago, I have begun to question what is lost or shifted in different representations of data. For instance, reducing the data to one or a small number of does is a better way to visualize the data but what is lost here? Moreover, in terms of humanities studies, since everything is connected to everything and some edges must be cut off, doesn’t this make the data representation subjective? Weingart says that data-cutting can create uncertainty and biases and this ability or process becomes “as much as an art as it is a science.” I feel like this fluidity and uncertainty can create many difficulties and subjective representations of the same data as well as making it hard to compare across network visualizations. Weingart also mentions that there are different ways of representing relationships between nodes such as the thickness, color, or length. How do these differences change the way the viewer interprets the data and relationships? Also, Weingart states that relationships can be called “edges, arcs, links, ties, and relations.” Which fields of studies are more likely to use which terminology? Is there any standardization of terminology? Or some definitions that are set and others that are fluid depending on the subject? Mark Alan Rhodes II’s “Paul Robeson’s place in YouTube” article was an interesting case study that used network analysis. I was particularly drawn to the two visualizations of networks: (1) topic clusters and (2) Paul Robeson’s place-based YouTube videos, that showed the power and intricacies of visualizing relationships between data/nodes.


## Alison Fortenberry
  9:59 PM
Weingart’s blog post was very informative, and helped really break down how networks are formed, but what stuck out to me the most was the idea that networks are often used, but aren’t always appropriate. At first, it seems that there are so many approaches or applications one could take when conceiving a network, but, as the reading broke down potential pitfalls, it felt like there was actually a quite narrow range of appropriate applications of networks. I wonder if there is some kind of guide to help researchers critically engage with their research and with whether a network actually makes sense in how they present their data.
I really enjoyed the research question guiding the Robeson article and the idea of connecting memory to space, but I found the network visualizations pretty confusing. The first network visualization that connected the groups of video categories made sense visually, and, for me, was easier to parse than the table of data, but figures 2 and 3 lost me. There was just so much going on that it became easier to look at raw data than to try to figure out the visualization, which seems counterintuitive here. Something I did find really interesting, though, was the data that the author was able to pull out of the networks he made related to their betweenness. I thought the map visualizations were really effective, and their data was pulled from connections drawn in the network. Using networks to connect trends as a researcher and produce visualizations (without necessarily presenting the networks as visualizations themselves) seems like a good workaround for presenting data related to a complicated network.


## James Sowerby
  10:34 PM
I thought Weingart wrote an excellent idea to network analysis that really distilled each part clearly. It makes me wonder about the role of the "blog post"—it seems like a good stepping stone between totally new users and actual scholarly articles that can introduce them to a subject without presenting any barriers. It furthermore helped me understand the technical aspect of the data visualization that I presented to the class last week. That project, which used Francis Bacon to create a graph, now makes a lot more sense to me. It seems it was an "ego network," or a graph of everyone who had any connection to Francis Bacon in his milieu, and  used nondirectional edges. But an aspect that I don't think Weingart mentioned but figured prominently in the project was the idea of statistically inferred edges—connections drawn by computers and not necessarily verified by human researchers. I'm interested in the degree to which the humanist needs to be constantly supervising the project. Weingart talked about that humanists tend to see everything as a nail when they get the hammer of digital techniques, but can the humanist really just set the hammer down at some point and let the project go by itself? I'm not sure if this idea makes much sense, but it stuck with me while reading.
I deeply enjoyed the Robeson article, despite my relative unfamiliarity with him as a historical figure (which supports Rhodes' claim that he has become obscure in today's memory). The one thing I do know about him is his connection to Princeton, so I appreciated those references. But the most captivating idea here was the idea of digital heritage and the different interpretations of his legacy shown through YouTube network analysis. The differences between each group and its consumption in the world created a rich tapestry for analysis, and it has honestly changed the way I thought of cultural memory in the digital age, having only really thought about its place in literature so far.


## Emanuelle Sippy
  1:04 AM
I thought that the pieces for today were in conversation with each other in really interesting ways related to physical space, history, memory, and methods in digital humanities. Weingart’s point about the limitations of “dense nodes” coupled with his recognition of the critical nature of attending to interconnectedness in humanistic scholarship stood out to me, especially in light of the authors’ inclusion of Dijck’s finding about the “construction of infinite connections” in the Robeson article (176). I was particularly interested in the ways the authors looked at the place-based nature of content about Robeson and how the “‘located-ness’” (177) of the content diverged from where viewers are and where discourse about the content takes place (182-183). The notion of “digital heritage” itself seems to be an important contribution and lens for interdisciplinary digital humanities scholarship. Moreover, I found the way they drew on Hoskins’ articulation of “‘networked memory’” compelling and relevant to so many significant cultural and political moments in history and how they are understood and remembered through technological tools and digital content. It seems to be a huge oversight to study individual figures like Robeson or collective movements and moments without attending to “the arenas in which memory and identity are shaped” and these are not only digital but also physical spaces, such as educational, religious, and cultural institutions. In my own experience growing up in Jewish institutions, I have thought a lot about how Holocaust education can be a significant part of identity formation. I think this is also true of many traumatic moments that are both taught and obscured in American public schools, such as the history of Japanese internment and colonization and ethnic cleansing of Indigenous tribes in North America.


## Melissa Woo
  1:06 AM
I really enjoyed the tone of Weingart’s piece on “Demystifying Networks.” It felt very colloquial and accessible, which was perhaps the entire point. Having taken a networks class with the ORF department, where much more focus was on the network theory and the technicals of game theory, triadic closure, etc etc, it was very refreshing to take a step back and think critically about where and why networks should be used. I wonder if there’s something to be said about always contextualizing technical methodology and research within the broader environment of what the “stuff” is and where and why we should use it. This type of translational research is inspiring because it shows how accessible topics that are otherwise less accessible can be if the author is intentionally making the content understandable.
Looking at the figures (for ex, the network of books, authors, and relationships between them) reminded me of much of the discussion we had on data visualization – in many ways, representing tabular data in network form is a type of data visualization, and choices in how to display the data and what data to show colors the insights that can be gained from the network visualization. For example, changing edge weights based on strength of connection or level of similarity would lead to different conclusions than just tossing everything together on a page. Choosing to differentiate between directed and undirected edges would also change the effect.

For Rhodes Ii’s work on Paul Robeson, I thought it was really cool to see how network visualization and quantitative metrics were leveraged to gain insight into how Robeson's online presence is structured and engaged with on the YouTube platform. Reading these types of papers are cool because they are so at the intersection of computational methods and humanistic considerations – it really shows that there are so many ways to answer a question and that by thinking critically about how and when and why we can apply digital humanities approaches like this, we can explore new areas (and get out of “safe waters”, as Weingart would say). That being said, I’m curious how Robeson’s legacy is being shaped across a broader ecosystems of digital archives, social media, and other online spaces; not just YouTube. I’m also curious how qualitative or more humanistic research could complement the more technical use of quantitative network analysis metrics, like centrality measures and user engagement data. So much of what we’ve talked about has emphasized the importance of considering the cultural, historical, and political contexts that inform the production and consumption of digital content. I wonder if a deeper engagement with these contextual factors could enrich the analysis and provide a more nuanced understanding of the power dynamics and structural inequalities that shape the digital legacy of marginalized figures like Robeson.


## Layla Williams
  1:51 AM
The network analysis tools seem helpful in understanding the relationships between different information systems. I think it is helpful to build upon the discussions from last week in terms of the visualization of data. The network analysis gave us insight into the background information for creating the relationships between data. Whereas the visualization of data was the engagement of the material, for example by literally shifting it around to make the data as clear to the consumer as possible. When thought about in context with the other source about the geographical importance of the data, I see more about not only the networks in context with each other but also within other networks. The possibilities of network analysis gives the opportunity to have an endless form of networks. Could you not always continue to expand the network depending on what research you were conducting? Could you connect two seemingly unconnected topics through network analysis? Maybe geographically one country associates those phrases or topics with one another more than it would be associated with within other contexts. This allows you to explore the historical archives to possibly then justify this disparity. Possibilities of network analysis give us innovative ways to continue to explore previously unexplored sources of information, such as Paul Robeson and social media.


## Ethan Haque
  2:03 AM
I did not like Demystifying Networks, Parts I & II. I think it presents interesting ideas and provides an accessible intro to the broad concept of graph/network theory, but it makes claims that are too lose, broad, and generally incorrect. Generally, talking about algorithms and mathematical objects in a non-mathematical way at great lengths is difficult. Weingart does a good job of taking their knowledge of graph theory and putting it in a much more digestible form, but it comes at the cost of important levels of preciseness and tact. They make claims about graph algorithms that simply aren't true. Bipartite graphs are common and well-studied. They have nice properties that make them easy to reason about, and there's not a huge amount of invariants we have to keep in our head to visualize such a network. However, we have many graph algorithms and analysis techniques that operate on non k-colorable graphs. It's not that we're ill-equipped to deal with these kinds of networks, but it's probably a modeling issue to create such complicated networks. Simple models tend to be more explainable. Additionally, the author talks about dense vs. sparse networks and claims that dense networks are rarely useful. They also claim that most graph algorithms work better and faster on sparse networks. This is certainly true for specific classes of algorithms and specific data configurations, but this is not true as a general claim. Deep learning make great use of dense networks for example. The efficacy of early neural networks was thanks to dense networks. Sparse networks have nice properties for learning tasks as well, but many graph algorithms have large runtimes on inputs where the average degree of each node is low.


## Colin Brown
  8:14 AM
This pair of readings paired well together, with the Weingart providing some more fundamental knowledge about networks and the Rhodes study showing an interesting application of that knowledge. Weingart’s writing seemed pretty straight forward in terms of what networks are, but one thing I noted from his writing is that in DH studies, researchers often have to manually make the data sparse, which immediately stood out to me as a spot that could get subjective really fast.
One thing that stood out to me about the Rhodes article was how well he placed his research within the larger context of literature on Paul Robeson. For instance, he often talks about how the stereotypes he sees reinforced through his analysis on YouTube - Robeson being seen primarily as a musician and internationalist - are also the stereotypes that more classical humanities research saw occurring towards Robeson. Moreover, we’ve often talked about how DH is often not a field that goes in depth to explain a certain topic but rather provides an analysis on a larger body of work to reveal trends or patterns that should be investigated further; indeed, Rhodes stays true to this, including his discussion of Australia popping up as very interconnected topic within videos about Robeson and how that could inspire more specific studies. I would be curious to see how other researchers have taken Rhodes’ methods and findings to perform further work.