# Reflections on mapping and GIS

## James Sowerby
  3:47 PM
The readings for Thursday were interesting—on the one hand, they discussed the potential to misinterpret visual representations or the potential of digital modeling to change established cultural topography, but they didn't always feel themselves accessible. This was moreso the case for Monmonier's article. I found myself pretty confused at times when reading it, and as I marked in my Perusall annotations, felt that the example of a gizmo was not a helpful elucidation of the dynamic at play. If anything, it made things harder to understand. Maybe this is just how my brain works, and I'm conscious that other people may disagree with me, but I found it much more relevant when they used the example of the Cholera outbreak to show how different subdivisions would not have revealed the local well's infection. I also wasn't quite sure how to parse the central message of the text, hinging on a comparison between a naive and a careful map user to show how things might be distorted. Very few people are, in my mind, careful map users. Especially in this highly digital age, data visualizations can tear through the internet and be widely misinterpreted extremely easily. It doesn't matter if some would be able to see that it distorted reality; so long as there are "naive" map viewers this dangerous potential for misinterpretation will still exist because of the ease of transmission. I also like Glasze's article, and particularly enjoyed the discussion of toponym association for images and other media. On the one hand, it can reinforce rigid spatial boundaries. On the other, it is itself proof that they are changing and ephermal—in Glasze's words, "re-produc[ing]" themselves—through the difficulty of toponym attribution.

## Pia Bhatia
  11:05 AM
Reading Monmonier’s Data Maps: A Thicket of Thorny Choices felt to me like a discussion of the ethics of this kind of mapping, though the writing didn’t make this feel like an explicit choice. The brief mention of pandemics reminded me of my own experience—during covid in India, the government released an app called Aarogya Setu. One of the functions of the app was to notify users if there had been a newly reported case in their area. According to the Wikipedia page: “It tells how many COVID-19 positive cases are likely in a radius of 500 m, 1 km, 2 km, 5 km and 10 km from the user.” The app’s source code was released because there were mounting privacy concerns, but looking back I still wonder whether different areas and neighborhoods were represented equally, and what informed the formation of clusters in the first place. Monmonier asks, “Is the mapping method inflating the significance of some clusters? And is it possibly hiding others?”

## Pippa LaMacchia
  3:17 PM
Both Monmonier’s Data Maps: A Thicket of Thorny Choices as well as Glasze’s Language(s), Discourse(s), Space(s) and their Transformations in the Digital Age brought up many questions for me. In Monmonier’s article, I was principally struck by the tone of the piece — nearly ominous in its warning about unreliable representations of numerical data. The concluding section in which Monmonier directly calls for the reader to be “skeptical of maps based on numbers” was interesting to me because while I acknowledge that readers and researchers have to be careful about the data the the sources they use, shouldn’t it be an ethical responsibility of the original researcher to provide data maps that are accurately representative of their work? I obviously understand that this is probably an unrealistic demand to make, so I appreciate his call for wariness when looking at singular maps. In Galsze’s article I would like to further discuss the implications of our current ever-changing digital age because socialization is now universal instead of geographically contained. Is this scary or hopeful?


## Alison Fortenberry
  10:25 AM
The Monmonier reading helped me understand all of the various factors a map maker has to take into account when creating maps and extrapolating trends from them. There are a lot of ways that inaccuracies or biases can find their way into the mapping process, and it’s the responsibility of the mapper to avoid all of these traps. Still, some of them felt pretty easy to fall into. Monmonier discusses how even titles can reinforce the story a biased mapper could be trying to sell. “Percentage Change in Unemployment Rate” sends a different message than “Increases in Persons Seeking Work,” though both could be claiming to depict the same data. I think this article just served as a reminder that, as a viewer, there is a responsibility to question all data and map projects presented to you. I do think authors with pro- and con- biases about the unemployment rate could title their maps these names in good faith, perhaps not recognizing how large their bias looms over the presentation. A good mapper should account for all of these potential limitations or biases, but, now knowing how many ways that could go wrong, a good reader should also account for these potential limitations and biases, making sure to question whatever they are presented. The Glasze reading was helpful for considering GIS and modern map visualizations through its historical reconstruction of how we got to this modern mapping moment. Understanding the evolving motives of mapping projects helps understand the potential aims and biases a mapper may have when constructing a visualization. The future of mapping that works together with social media is really exciting, and it’s fascinating to see how cultural geography continues to evolve to meet the circumstances of the moment it exists in.


## Anya Kalogerakos
  1:10 PM
While I do think the Monmonier article had many great points about the ways in which maps can distort reality depending on the choices made, I am not sure if I loved the way they went about it. I felt the reading as a whole was a little bit belittling to the reader, and assumed that the reader had no understanding of how broad pictures differ from small details. Though I do understand the importance of the point they were trying to get across–you should always question the purpose of a map and what details may be hidden. I also felt that the author may have belabored the point on how states are different than counties are different than towns are different than households, etc. I do feel like those working with data do typically have a good understanding of how data can distort on different levels of aggregation. Perhaps I am too optimistic, but I feel that errors that come out of maps often have to do with unintended bias rather than intentional bias (with perhaps the exception of politically motivated maps). I do appreciate how in-depth the author went with every layer of the map, whether the map itself or its key, and illuminated the different ways in which data can be altered. I think the difficulty with maps is that maps will never truly be able to represent the data perfectly (because the level of nuance required would take rebuilding the entire area), but they can be used to answer specific questions. From this reading, it seems most important to describe the choices that you made when making a map, and perhaps present several map representations of the data so that the viewer can understand your choices.


## Clay Glovier
  1:11 PM
I enjoyed reading both Monmonier and Glasze’s respective articles on Data Maps: A Thicket of Thorny Choices and Languages, Discourses, Spaces, and their Transformations in the Digital Age. It was especially interesting to learn in Monmonier’s work how creators of statistical charts and graphics can produce false conclusions from sound data. This can be done by choosing to include irrelevant outliers that shift the data’s results, or by choosing to exclude important outliers that change how the story is told. In a world where it is becoming increasingly easy to use statistical tools to produce fancy and seemingly convincing charts, it is important that the public receives basic statistics training to be able to recognize when they are being misled and when the conclusions of datasets are not what they seem. In Glasze’s work, it was interesting to learn that the conception that people are sorted into different geographic areas based on economic and social factors and status was originally a controversial Marxist thought. Today, I think that this premise would be generally accepted. In sum, both articles made illuminating points and I enjoyed reading about how statistical analyses are created and what concepts are important to understand when viewing their results. (edited) 


## Andrew Huo
  3:15 PM
This weeks readings provided a leap into the world of visual mapping with no sugar-coating or introduction. There was a lot of information and it was hard to wrap my heard around all of it. But a few things stood out to me. Monmonier’s chapter: “Data Maps: A Thicket of Thorny Choices,” went into a lot of detail about the potential consequences of how maps are visually categorized. From last week’s reading, one question I had was how do the visual representations of data influence how the viewer takes it in (from font, colors, spacing, theme, etc) and this chapter zoned in on a very specific part of that question. Monmonier’s skeptical tone was interesting and strongly apparent starting from his warning to watch out for maps made by “self-promoting scientists, manipulating politicians, misleading advertisers, and other propgandists.” One question I had was – is there a system of checking if maps qualify as unbiased and standardized? Is there a review for publishing maps? Also, the section explaining categorization was very interesting to me, and how the differences between equal-interval, quartile scheme, and no-class systems can shift how the viewer reads the map. I had not realized how many different ways one could represent numbers on a map and how our eyes can trick us into believing what the scientists, journalists, etc. want us to believe. The last sentence of the chapter poses the same doubts on “definitions, measurements, shortcuts, and motives of a government agency, research institute, or polling firm that generously provides its data,” and I would have liked to learn more about all of these factors. Glasze’s article was more confusing and difficult to interpret but I was fascinated by the section on social media and how that has shifted communication and information transfer. And more importantly the study on Wikipedia and OpenStreetMap, which showed how data production “is shaped by numerous inequalities that lead to bias in the nature and spatial distribution of the data collected.” I would have liked to learn more about data biases in the western world and how it reinforces its own beliefs.


## Talia Goldman
  4:02 PM
This look into maps as data visualization and the pitfalls of this practice was quite interesting. In the Monmonier reading, I was particularly interested in the section about disease maps. The question of how much data is needed for significant results to visualize is especially interesting in the context of health, which has many variables and gray areas, making the accuracy of the data important for honest development of medical practices. I also wondered, reading the article, how exactly Monmonier’s warnings about governmental agencies, research centers, and polling firms fit into our consideration of data visualization in the humanities. The Glasze reading helped to answer that question with its explanation of technology’s role in reproducing space. Considering analysis of social media in defining meaning expanded what I considered “mappable” quantifiable data, so I appreciated this perspective. Overall, these readings served as important warning about the manipulability of data visualization, especially in regard to the mapping of social-science related information, echoing themes of bias and the need for critical thinking when engaging with DH that have been throughlines of this course.


## Melissa Woo
  5:12 PM
It was very interesting to read about the different considerations that go into making areal aggregations and visualizations based on spatial data in the Monmonier chapter. There are so many decisions that are glossed over that have such huge impacts on the insights that can be gleaned for any published data visualization – for example, displaying electoral results at the county level might show a vast sea of one color, implying a landslide victory, when in actuality, the popular vote might be closely contested. This could be attributed to the distribution of population density and political inclinations, often concentrated in urban areas as opposed to rural expanses. As with the gizmos and households and subsequently referenced applications of revenue, taxation, etc., towns, counties, and other delineated spatial categories are relevant, but choosing the granularity with which to address the data can truly make such a difference.
	As I reflect on Glasze's article, I find myself grappling with the profound implications of the changing relationship between language, discourse, and space in the digital age. The article's exploration of how digital technologies are transforming the production, circulation, and consumption of discourse raises important questions for me. How do these digital affordances and constraints influence the construction and dissemination of discourses, and what new power dynamics emerge as discourses become more decentralized and user-driven? I agree that adapting methodological approaches is crucial to capture these dynamic, multimodal discursive landscapes, but I wonder what specific tools and techniques would be most effective. I'm intrigued by the idea of virtual spaces as sites for the negotiation of spatial identities, representations, and conflicts. However, I'm not fully convinced that online discourses always shape the material production and experience of physical spaces in straightforward ways. I'd be curious to explore the nuances and potential contradictions in these relationships.


## Raphaela Gold
  10:47 PM
I thought the Monmonier article connected nicely with our readings from Tuesday focusing on data visualization and contributed more nuance in its focus on the more “thorny” side of map making. I was a bit confused as to why the researcher chose to use the fictional example of gizmos rather than a real life example, but it did provide visual simplicity, which I appreciated. I was most struck by the exploration of the choropleth map because they are so common in modern media, but I have never paused to consider the process behind creating them and how complicated it must be to design an aggregate summary of complex topics. So often, we see choropleths in newspapers and online looking at issues like population density, weather patterns, illness, per capita income, etc. They show us not just data, but how data changes from place to place, which can be very difficult to capture. When looking at choropleth’s, I found it helpful to keep in mind the questions Monmonier had raised earlier in the article about thinking first about how the tool will be used before creating it, and working backwards from there. In doing so, a researcher can craft a product that will genuinely be useful to an interfacer rather than having use be an afterthought, and thus do more meaningful work.
	I also thought the specific example of pandemics provided some really important insights. Monmonier’s comment that, “pandemics are rare, and seldom is the association between disease and an environmental cause so overwhelming that the link is easily identified and unchallenged,” made me think about how difficult it is to track causation as opposed to correlation across these maps, and really any real-life data set, because of the difficulty of running a controlled experiment – especially for rare events like pandemic with few comparable events. On the other hand, looking at pandemics allowed the researchers to delve more deeply into multiple angles of their questions: for example, the way they showed the difference between the crude death rate and the age adjusted death rate.
	Overall, I really appreciated this reading, although I was a bit put off by the authoritative, imperative tone at the end, which we haven’t yet really seen in this kind of writing. I think it is effective here because the author has proven his point, but also a bit jarring to be told so definitively what to think and do in the context of an academic paper.


## Colin Brown
  12:10 AM
First, I saw a lot of parallels between Monmonier’s paper and the principles of honest visualization from Edward Tufte that we discussed during our last class. For instance, Monmonier talked extensively about how during data aggregation processes, data can be morphed to take many different visual shapes, even with the same starting body of data. This aligns strongly with Tufte’s assertion that no matter how creative you want to get with the aggregation or graphics, the representation of numbers needs to be proportional to the true quantities of those numbers. I liked how Monmonier explored a wide range of possible data visualization types - a few of which I hadn’t ever seen before - and showed how a fundamental idea like this manifests itself in different ways for each visualization method, and how, if violated, can be deceiving. I also noticed that Monmonier hinted several times that one should normalize their data to avoid scaling issues. I’ve heard this in many other statistics-related work I’ve done in other classes.
As for the Glasze article, I had a bit of trouble understanding exactly what he meant by “spaces”. It seems to balance somewhere between a geographical physical meaning and some more theoretical realm, but I couldn’t really pinpoint where that balance was. I think I would have to read more into some of the other papers that discuss cultural and social geography to understand what is being discussed. Either way, it was insightful to see his perspective on how technology has shaped that field of thought and our daily interactions with it.


## Yaashree Himatsingka
  12:29 AM
Through a relatively straightforward case study of gizmo ownership across counties, Monmonier shows how the same numerical dataset can be used to create “markedly dissimilar” maps. The helpful, broader point he makes is about reading maps, or other forms of areally aggregated data, with a critical eye because they can be misleading, perhaps due to the limitations of current mapping software which has made “cartographic self-deception inevitable,” or because the mapmaker has intentionally distorted the data to serve “manipulating politicians, misleading advertisers,” etc. I thought the following guidances were especially succinct and useful for map creators and users.
 What else can the conscientious analyst do? Very little aside from the obvious: know the area and the data, experiment with data for a variety of levels of aggregation, and carefully qualify all conclusions. And what should the skeptical map user do? Look for and compare maps with different levels of detail and be wary of cartographic manipulators who choose the level of aggregation that best proves their point.
Glasze applies an insight from Cultural and Social Geography – that “societal spaces [aren’t to be] conceived as given but as always (re)produced” – to Digital Geography, arguing that language and discourse work to “delimit, describe, and thus produce specific spaces.” I’m curious about his use of the term ‘space’ rather than ‘place’. Glasze draws from cultural studies to show how language, signs, and symbols create meaning and social realities, perhaps reflecting the transformation of ‘space’ (a bounded, geographic region) to ‘place’ (a ‘space’ imbued with values, histories, and attachments through evolving human cultures and engagements). I wonder if the term ‘place’ would more effectively capture the dynamic construction of digital environments, and the ways in which abstract spaces grow into meaning-laden, culturally significant places?


## Layla Williams
  2:16 AM
Before our discussion in class on Tuesday and reading the articles for class, I did not necessarily picture maps as being a part of data visualization, even though I understand there was a lot of information that goes into creating maps. I feel like I see maps as another entity in and of itself. I have heard of classes on campus which actually discuss the political power of geographies and how we construct them through the making of maps. What are we highlighting within its construction, and how might map mapking actually skew our reality and perception of our relationships to our geographical experiences? In one of the articles, they discussed how data scientists could purposely skew their data visualization in order to persuade politicians and people in power to make particular decisions based on the presentation of their data. I think the creation of maps is one of the examples where governments can use the power of creating districts to influence policies within political spheres—I mean, is this not the very practice of redlining? What might be other ways where the actual demonstration or representation of the map imbues a sort of power to those who are either living in that environment or getting their sole introduction of the area through this filtered representation?


## Helen Gao
  2:43 AM
“Data Maps” showed several ways in which data visualizations can obscure meaning or change how a viewer interprets data. The examples in the article reminded me of the examples we looked at on Tuesday, like how the organization/placement of certain parts of the visualization can lead to different perceptions. I’m curious about the psychology behind this, since it’s unclear why we as humans are so susceptible to these visual biases. The article also explained various statistical concepts, such as the applicability of assumptions, what to do with outliers, and how to interpret r-values, which I appreciated as a nice refresher. The article also emphasized the importance of being skeptical when reading maps and other forms of data visualizations, which I completely agree with – although I found the ‘call to action’ somewhat unrealistic, as many people don’t have the time or data literacy to investigate every map they see on the news. “Language(s), Discourse(s), Space(s)” was interesting as well, and I was quite fascinated by the findings from social media, specifically Twitter. While the findings were cool, it seems unsettlingly easy to make generalizations from large amounts of social media data. The article also made me think about how our conceptions of places have changed over time, especially in the context of cartograms. Finally, as with other discussions about digital media, I appreciated that this article recognized the inequalities that lead to the digital world not being fully representative of the real world.

## Emanuelle Sippy
  3:22 PM
(4/4 -- sorry this is late) Monmonier’s warnings about the ways that maps can be manipulated and data can be distorted made me think about how often we encounter these distortions in our everyday lives– scrolling through social media, reading articles, consuming advertisements. The recommendations for best practices, such as “stating clearly the data units used and…not assuming that a trend apparent at one level of aggregation exists at other levels as well” (Monmonier 5) were very helpful. I think his overall point that “a single variable can yield many different maps” and that researchers might need more than one map to accurately depict findings is informative.

I also thought Glasze’s piece was illuminating in tracing the intersections between cultural studies, physical space, and philosophical and political ideas over time. I was most struck by the idea that “imaginative geographies…coincide with the concrete appropriation of places” (Glasze 53). Given that imagination plays such a critical role in literature and politics, the things I spend more of my time thinking and learning about, it was interesting for me to consider the role of imagination in the intersection between physical space and culture. I am interested in how this reframes processes such as gentrification and colonization as not only processes of physical and place-based displacement but also imaginative and cultural displacement.

Taken together, I think these pieces raise important points about what it means for research to ensure transparency and accuracy both in mapping and through interdisciplinary methods that take context and culture into account—another way of reducing distorted research findings.